 	HHS Public Access
Author manuscript
Child Neuropsychol. Author manuscript.
Activities of Daily Living and Working Memory in Pediatric 
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)
Lauren N. Irwin, M.S.1, Elia F. Soto, M.S.1, Elizabeth S.M. Chan, M.A.1, Caroline E. Miller, B.A.1, Shana Carrington-Forde, M.S.1, Nicole B. Groves, M.S.1, Michael J. Kofler, Ph.D.1 1Florida State University, Department of Psychology
Abstract
Most children with ADHD have impaired working memory abilities. These working memory deficits predict impairments in activities of daily living (ADLs) for adults with ADHD. However, our understanding of the relation between pediatric ADHD and ADLs is limited. Thus, this study aimed to examine (1) the extent to which pediatric ADHD is associated with ADL difficulties; and if so (2) the extent to which these difficulties are related to their well-documented working memory difficulties and/or core ADHD inattentive and hyperactive/impulsive symptom domains. A well-characterized, clinically evaluated sample of 141 children ages 8–13 years (M=10.36, SD=1.46; 51 girls; 70% White/non-Hispanic) were administered a battery of well-validated working memory tests and assessed for ADHD symptoms (teacher-ratings) and ADL difficulties (parent-ratings); cross-informant reports were used to control for mono-informant bias. Children with ADHD exhibited medium magnitude difficulties with ADLs (d=0.61, p<.005, 38% impaired). Results of the bias-corrected, bootstrapped conditional effects model indicated that lower working memory predicted reduced performance of age-expected ADLs (β=.28) and greater ADHD inattentive (β=−0.40) and hyperactive/impulsive symptoms (β=−0.16). Greater inattentive, but not hyperactive/impulsive, symptoms predicted greater ADL difficulties (β=−0.36) even after controlling for working memory. Interestingly, working memory exerted a significant indirect effect on ADLs via inattentive (indirect effect: β=.15, effect ratio=.54) but not hyperactive/ impulsive symptoms. These findings implicate ADHD inattentive symptoms as a potential mechanism underlying ADL difficulties for children with ADHD, both independently and via working memory’s role in regulating attention.
Keywords
ADHD; activities of daily living; ADL; working memory; executive function
 
Activities of daily living (ADLs) is a broad term used to describe life tasks fundamental for supporting self-care and self-maintenance (Lawton & Brody, 1969). Initial definitions of ADLs encompassed a wide range of functions including locomotion, traveling, dressing, 
 
Corresponding Author: Michael J. Kofler, Ph.D., Florida State University | Department of Psychology, 1107 W. Call Street | Tallahassee, FL 32306-4301, Phone: (850) 645-0656, Fax: (850) 644-7739, kofler@psy.fsu.edu. 
Conflict of Interest:
The authors have no conflicts of interest to report.
toileting, and eating (Mlinac & Feng, 2016). In clinical practice, difficulties with ADLs are often a qualitative marker of declines in cognitive processes such as working memory, stemming from the association between ADLs and executive functioning (Thames et al., 2011; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010; Woods et al., 2008). ADLs have historically been used as a classifier to assess disability status among older adults (Katz, 1983); however, they are becoming more commonly used in assessing functional impairment in children as well (Blank et al., 2008; Cook et al., 2018; Duncan & Bishop, 2015; James et al., 2014; Thaler et al., 2012). Furthermore, research on age-related changes in ADL abilities (Hayase, et al., 2004) emphasizes the utility of ADL definitions that encompass skills in accordance with developmental age. For example, basic/personal ADL tasks (e.g., dressing, personal hygiene) are more commonly executed in younger children whereas adolescents increasingly perform more complex ADLs independently (e.g., preparing meals, completing household chores; James et al., 2014; Summers et al., 2008). To date, ADLs have been extensively investigated in adults with neurodegenerative disorders and in children with chromosomal and/or neurological disorders (James et al., 2014; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010; Woods et al., 2008); however, only more recently have ADLs been investigated in children with neurodevelopmental disorders (Cook et al., 2018; Duncan & Bishop, 2015; Thaler et al., 2012).
Working Memory and ADL Performance
Results from the adult and geriatric literature on associations between ADLs and measures of cognition suggest deficits in ADLs are associated with both mild and severe degrees of cognitive decline (Jekel et al., 2015; Ranhoff, 1997; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010; Woods et al., 2008), with more severe impairments in cognitive functioning relating to increased impairments in ADL performance (Arling & Williams, 2003; Tomaszewski Farias et al., 2009). Working memory has been increasingly indicated as an important executive function implicated in functional outcomes such as ADLs (Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010). For example, evidence suggests that working memory is a significant predictor of ADL performance in adults (Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010) and that training working memory abilities may positively impact ADL performance in older adults (Cantarella et al., 2017). Working memory, one of the three core executive functions (Miyake et al., 2000), refers to the active, top-down manipulation of information held in short-term memory (Baddeley, 2007), and includes interrelated functions of the mid-lateral prefrontal cortex and interconnected networks that involve dual-processing, updating, and reordering (Nee et al., 2013; Wager & Smith, 2003).
ADLs and Neurodevelopmental Disorders
Though ADLs have been widely studied in aging populations (Martyr & Clare, 2012), the literature has only recently begun to examine ADLs in pediatric populations. This paucity of research is surprising given that (a) several neurodevelopmental disorders have been associated with impaired executive functioning, which in turn has been linked with ADL difficulties in adults (e.g., Barkley & Murphy, 2010); and (b) childhood reflects the developmental period during which foundational ADLs are explicitly taught and learned (Demetriou et al., 2018; Kingdon et al., 2016). Research investigating ADL impairment and executive functioning in child and/or adolescent populations is mostly limited to samples of children with chromosomal and/or neurological disorders. For example, impaired ADL performance is well-documented in children diagnosed with Down’s Syndrome, Cerebral Palsy, and Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD); although their ADL impairments appear to be associated largely with fine and gross motor delays rather than impairments in working memory or related executive functions (Summers et al., 2008; Volman et al., 2006; Magalhães et al., 2011; Wang et al., 2012). In contrast, research investigating ADL skills in neurotypical children suggests that age is the most significant predictor of ADL performance (Rosenberg, 2015). Research examining the association between executive functions, particularly working memory, and impairments in ADLs in children with neurodevelopmental disorders is limited, with most studies examining this relation in children with autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability (Duncan & Bishop, 2015; Gantschnig et al., 2011).
However, pediatric attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with broad and replicated evidence linking it with executive function impairments, particularly in working memory (Biederman et al., 2004; Kofler, Irwin et al., 2018; Nigg et al., 2005). Cross-sectional evidence indicates cortical underdevelopment in working memory-related brain regions in children with ADHD (for review, see Rapport et al., 2013) while longitudinal evidence indicates 3–5 year delays in cortical maturation of these regions in pediatric ADHD samples (Shaw et al., 2007). Thus, the lack of understanding among the interplay of working memory and ADLs in pediatric ADHD is concerning particularly given that research has shown that executive functions such as working memory (Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010) significantly predict ADL performance in other populations. It is important to investigate ADLs in this population given the well-established link between executive functioning and ADLs (de Paula et al., 2015; Jekel et al., 2015; Ranhoff, 1997; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010; Woods et al., 2008). Taken together, the relation between deficits in working memory and ADL performance in pediatric ADHD is an understudied and potentially important area of research for understanding the influence of this disorder on children’s day to day functioning. Thus, this study aims to contribute to the pediatric literature by examining the association between working memory and ADL performance in children with ADHD.
ADLs and ADHD
ADHD is a neurodevelopmental disorder affecting approximately 5% of school-age children (Polanczyk et al., 2007, 2014). To date, the literature on ADLs in pediatric ADHD has primarily examined children’s disruptive behaviors and the quality of parent-child interactions during the performance of ADLs (Theule et al., 2013; Whalen, et al., 2006), rather than these children’s skill at independently performing ADLs. Furthermore, there is a surprising paucity of studies examining the relations between working memory or related executive functions and ADL performance in pediatric ADHD. Thus, to our knowledge no studies have examined whether childhood ADHD is associated with ADL impairments and, if so, whether those impairments are also linked with these children’s well-documented working memory deficits. These gaps in the literature are important to address given that prior literature indicates direct relations between working memory/related cognitive deficits and impairments in ADLs among children with other neurodevelopmental disorders including autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability (Duncan & Bishop, 2015; Gantschnig et al., 2011; Gilotty et al., 2002; Kottorp et al., 2003). In addition, measures of working memory and related executive functions predict ADL performance for adults with ADHD both cross-sectionally (Barkley & Murphy 2010; Stavro et al., 2011) and longitudinally (Barkley & Fischer, 2011). These findings suggest that working memory may be an underlying causal mechanism for difficulties in ADL performance among adults with ADHD. However, due to differing symptom presentations across disorders and developmental demands in adulthood versus childhood (Weiss & Hechtman, 1993), further investigations are needed to examine whether these relations exist in pediatric ADHD and, if so, the extent to which the disorder’s well-documented working memory deficits (e.g., Kofler, Irwin et al., 2018) negatively impact ADL performance for these children.
Working Memory Impairments in ADHD: Associations with Functional Outcomes
Experimental and longitudinal evidence indicates that ADHD’s phenotypic behavioral presentation is likely driven, at least in part, by deficits in working memory (Rapport et al., 2009; Karalunas et al., 2017; Kofler et al., 2015). Working memory deficits in ADHD are well established, with meta-analytic evidence suggesting large effect sizes (d=2.01–2.15; Kasper et al., 2012). Recent literature suggests that a majority of children with ADHD display impairments in at least one executive function, with the largest proportion of children with ADHD exhibiting deficits in working memory abilities at a prevalence rate of 62% to 85% (Fosco et al., 2020; Karalunas et al., 2017; Kasper et al., 2012; Kofler et al., 2018; Sonuga-Barke et al., 2008).
In addition to the replicated evidence for a causal role of working memory deficits on core ADHD behavioral symptoms (e.g., Kofler et al., 2010), these deficits have also been associated experimentally and cross-sectionally with functional impairments across academic, organizational, peer, and family outcomes. The relation between working memory impairments and academic outcomes has been given considerable attention in the pediatric ADHD literature with studies establishing an association (Arnold et al., 2020; Friedman et al., 2016, 2017; Simone et al., 2018), as well as causal evidence (Kofler, Spiegel et al., 
2018), between working memory and underachievement in reading and math. Working memory also predicts parent and teacher ratings of organizational difficulties in children with ADHD (Kofler, Sarver et al., 2018). In addition to academic outcomes, replicated evidence indicates that ADHD-related working memory impairments predict social problems (Bunford et al., 2014; Hoza, 2007; Kofler, Harmon et al., 2018). Thus, current literature suggests working memory is an important underlying mechanism both associated with and predictive of functional outcomes for ADHD. Yet, very limited studies have examined the relation between working memory and functional outcomes outside of the academic and peer domains, despite early evidence of working memory’s association with family functioning (Mares et al., 2007; Kofler, Sarver, et al., 2016). Towards addressing this gap in the ADHD literature, an examination of ADLs is important, as ADLs are diffuse in the home setting and consequently may provide meaningful insight into children with ADHD’s functioning at home.
Current Study
Taken together, there is well-documented evidence that (1) most children with ADHD have working memory deficits (Fosco et al., 2020; Kasper et al., 2012); (2) adults with ADHD exhibit difficulties performing ADLs (Barkley & Murphy 2010; Stavro et al., 2011), with these difficulties linked with their deficits in executive functions such as working memory (Barkley & Fischer, 2011); and (3) working memory deficits are associated with difficulties independently performing ADLs in adulthood (Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010). However, it is not known whether (1) children with ADHD show impairments in ADL performance, and (2) if so, if deficits in working memory are an underlying mechanism for this population. To address these omissions, the current study combined cross-informant ratings of ADHD symptoms and ADL performance with children’s performance on a battery of well-validated working memory tests (Alderson et al., 2013; Kofler, Irwin et al., 2018; Miyake et al., 2000; Rapport et al., 2009) to examine working memory’s association with ADLs in children with and without ADHD symptoms. It seemed reasonable to hypothesize that children with ADHD would exhibit difficulties in independently performing ADLs and that working memory abilities would predict these difficulties given replicated findings in adults with ADHD (Barkley & Murphy 2010; Barkley & Fischer, 2011; Stavro et al., 2011). We further hypothesized that working memory performance would be associated with ADLs both directly and indirectly via working memory’s impact on ADHD-related inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity symptoms.
Method
Participants
The sample comprised 141 children ages 8–13 years (M=10.36, SD=1.46; 51 girls) from the 
Southeastern United States, recruited by or referred through community resources from 2015 to 2019 for participation in a larger study of the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying pediatric attention and behavioral problems. All parents and children gave informed consent/assent, and the Florida State University Institutional Review Board approved the study prior to and throughout data collection. Sample ethnicity was mixed with 99 Caucasian Non-Hispanic (70.2%), 17 Black/African American (12.1%), 12 Hispanic (8.5%), 12 multiracial children (8.5%), and 1 Asian (0.7%) child.
Group Assignment
All children and caregivers completed a detailed, semi-structured clinical interview using the Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Aged Children (KSADS; Kaufman et al., 1997). K-SADS interviews were supplemented with parent and teacher rating scales from the Behavior Assessment System for Children (BASC-2/3; Reynolds & Kamphaus, 2004) and ADHD Rating Scale for DSM-4/5 (ADHD-RS-4/5; DuPaul et al., 2016).
Ninety-three children met all of the following criteria and were included in the ADHD group: (1) DSM-5 diagnosis of ADHD Combined (n = 65), Inattentive (n = 24), or Hyperactive/Impulsive Presentation (n = 4) by the CLC’s directing clinical psychologist based on K-SADS and differential diagnosis considering all available clinical information indicating onset, course, duration, and severity of ADHD symptoms consistent with the ADHD neurodevelopmental syndrome, (2) borderline/clinical elevations on at least one parent and one teacher ADHD subscale; and (3) current impairment based on parent report. Children with any current ADHD presentation specifiers were eligible given the instability of ADHD subtypes (Lahey et al., 2005; Valo & Tannock, 2010; Willcutt et al., 2012). To improve generalizability (Wilens et al., 2002), children with comorbidities were included. Comorbidities reflect clinical consensus best estimates and included oppositional defiant disorder (12.9%) , depressive disorders (4.3%), and anxiety disorders (28.0%). Learning disabilities were suspected in 12.9% of the sample based on score(s) > 1.5 SD below agenorms on one or more KTEA-3 academic skills battery reading or math subtests.
The Non-ADHD group comprised 48 consecutive case-control referrals (22 girls) who did not meet ADHD criteria and included both neurotypical children and children with psychiatric disorders other than ADHD. Neurotypical children (62.5%) had normal developmental histories and nonclinical parent/teacher ratings, were recruited through community resources, and completed the same evaluation as clinically-referred cases. Clinically referred and evaluated children who did not meet ADHD criteria were also included in the Non-ADHD group. These Non-ADHD disorders were included to control for comorbidities in the ADHD group, and included best estimate diagnoses of anxiety (29.2%) and depressive (8.3%) disorders. Approximately 4.2% of the clinically-evaluated NonADHD cases screened positive for learning disorders based on score(s) > 1.5 SD below agenorms on one or more KTEA-3 academic skills battery reading or math subtests. Importantly, the ADHD and Non-ADHD groups did not differ compared to the ADHD group in the proportion of children diagnosed with anxiety (p = .89) and depression (p = .33). The ADHD group has a larger proportion of children with ODD as expected.
Children were excluded from the study if they presented with (a) gross neurological, sensory, or motor impairment, (b) history of a seizure disorder, psychosis, intellectual disability, or autism spectrum disorder, or (c) non-stimulant medications that could not be withheld for testing. Psychostimulants (Nprescribed=38) were withheld for a minimum of 24 hours prior to both research testing sessions.
Procedures
Children participated in two research sessions (3 hours each) following the baseline psychoeducational assessment. The working memory tasks were administered as part of a larger battery of executive and non-executive laboratory tasks. The tasks were counterbalanced within and across sessions to minimize order effects. Children were seated in a caster-wheel swivel chair approximately 0.66 meters from the computer monitor for all tasks. Performance was monitored at all times by the examiner, who was stationed just out of the child’s view to provide a structured setting while minimizing performance improvements associated with examiner demand characteristics (Gomez & Sanson, 1994). All children received brief (2–3 min) breaks after each task, and preset longer (10–15 min) breaks after every 2–3 tasks to minimize fatigue.
Working Memory Performance
Rapport working memory reordering tests.—The Rapport et al. (2009) computerized phonological and visuospatial working memory tests correctly classify children with versus without ADHD at similar rates as ADHD rating scales (Tarle et al., 2018), and predict hyperactivity (Rapport et al., 2009), inattention (Kofler et al., 2010), and impulsivity (Raiker et al., 2012). Reliability and validity evidence includes high internal consistency (α = .81–.97) and 1–3-week test-retest reliability (.76–.90; Kofler et al., 2019; Sarver et al., 2015), and expected relations with criterion working memory complex span (r = .69) and updating tasks (r = .61) (Wells et al., 2018). Internal consistency in the current sample was .84 (phonological) and .88 (visuospatial). Six trials per set size were administered in randomized/unpredictable order (3–6 stimuli/trial; 1 stimuli/second) as recommended (Kofler et al., 2016). Five practice trials were administered before each task (80% correct required). Task duration was approximately 5 (visuospatial) to 7 (phonological) minutes. Partial-credit unit scoring (i.e., stimuli correct per trial) was used to index overall working memory performance at each set size 3–6 as recommended (Conway et al., 2005).
The Rapport phonological working memory task assesses phonological working memory based on Baddeley’s (2007) model. Children were presented a series of jumbled numbers and a capital letter on a computer monitor. Each number and letter (4 cm height) appeared on the screen for 800 ms, followed by a 200 ms interstimulus interval. The letter never appeared in the first or last position of the sequence to minimize potential primacy and recency effects, and was counterbalanced across trials to appear an equal number of times in the other serial positions (i.e., position 2, 3, 4, or 5). Children were instructed to recall the numbers in order from smallest to largest, and to say the letter last (e.g., 4 H 6 2 is correctly recalled as 2 4 6 H).
The Rapport visuospatial working memory task assesses visuospatial working memory based on Baddeley’s (2007) model. Children were shown nine squares arranged in three offset vertical columns. A series of 2.5 cm diameter dots (3, 4, 5, or 6) were presented sequentially in one of the nine squares during each trial, such that no two dots appeared in the same square on a given trial. All but one dot presented within the squares was black—the exception being a red dot that was counterbalanced across trials to appear an equal number of times in each of the nine squares, but never presented as the first or last stimulus in the sequence to minimize potential primacy and recency effects. Each dot was displayed for 800 ms followed by a 200 ms interstimulus interval. Children reordered the dot locations (black dots in serial order, red dot last) and responded on a modified keyboard.
Working memory updating: Letter updating.—The Miyake et al. (2000) letter memory test was adapted for use with children and exemplifies working memory updating based on the Miyake et al. (2000) model. Working memory updating tasks involve the constant monitoring and rapid addition/deletion of working memory contents (Miyake & Friedman, 2012). Psychometric support for this version includes high internal consistency 
(α=.75), expected magnitude relations with other working memory tests (Kofler et al., 
2018), and large magnitude ADHD/Non-ADHD between group differences (Fosco et al., 2020; Kofler et al., 2018). Internal consistency in the current sample was .75. In this computerized task, letters were presented on the screen one at a time, and children were instructed to keep track of the last three letters presented. To ensure the task required continuous updating, children were instructed to rehearse out loud the last three letters by mentally adding the most recent letter and dropping the fourth letter back and then saying the new string of three letters out loud (Miyake et al., 2000). The number of letters presented (4–8 stimuli presented/trial, 1200 ms presentation, 2400 ms ISI) was varied randomly across trials to ensure that successful performance required continuous updating until the end of each trial. A practice block was administered; children advanced to the test phase following three correct trials. Four blocks of three trials each were administered. Children responded via mouse click. The dependent variables were mean stimuli correct per trial recalled in the correct serial order during each of the four task blocks.
Independent variable: Working memory.—Task impurity was controlled by computing a Bartlett maximum likelihood component score (DiStefano et al., 2009), which combined the 4 phonological reordering (set sizes 3–6), 4 visuospatial reordering (set sizes 3–6), and 4 letter updating (blocks 1–4) variables (43.92% variance accounted; component loadings = .50 – .76). This factor-analytically derived component score provides an estimate of reliable, component-level variance attributable to domain-general working memory. This formative method for estimating working memory was selected because (a) such methods have been shown to provide higher construct stability relative to confirmatory/reflective approaches (Willoughby et al., 2016); and (b) estimating working memory at the constructlevel rather than measure-level was expected to maximize associations with the study’s behavioral outcomes of interest via the removal of task-specific and error variance. Conceptually, this process isolates reliable variance across estimates of working memory by removing task-specific demands associated with nonworking memory processes, time-ontask effects via inclusion of four blocks per task, and non-construct variance attributable to other measured nonworking memory processes (e.g., short-term memory load). This working memory component score was used in all analyses below. Higher scores reflect better working memory abilities.
Activities of Daily Living (ADL)
The Behavioral Assessment System for Children (BASC-2/3; Reynolds & Kamphaus, 2015) Activities of Daily Living subscale was used in the current study (8–9 items; 4-point Likert scale), and contains both positively and negatively valanced items assessing caregiver perceptions of the frequency with which their child independently performs functional ADLs (e.g., brushing teeth, getting dressed, cleaning up after themselves, acting in a safe manner, making healthy food choices; Kamphaus & Reynolds, 2015). As an initial study, we selected a global, parent-report measure of ADLs because (a) adults with ADHD demonstrate difficulties with daily-living skills and ADLs (Barkley & Murphy, 2010; Barkley & Fischer, 2011), and (b) the concurrent validity of these scales has been demonstrated relative to global as well as specific indices of ADL difficulties. For example, the BASC-2/3 Activities of Daily Living subscale demonstrates the expected pattern of relations with measures of activities competence (r=.24 to .34; Achenbach & Rescorla, 2001) and measures of DSM-based disorders whose core features include ADL deficits 
(r=.54; Goldstein & Naglieri, 2010). Additional psychometric support for the Activities of Daily Living subscale includes high internal consistency (α=.77 to .80) and test-retest reliability (r = .86 to .90). Of note, the BASC teacher-report form does not have an ADL subscale; therefore, only parent-reported ADLs are assessed in the current study.
Dependent variable: Activities of daily living.—Raw scores from the BASC-2/3 Activities of Daily Living subscale were used to measure children’s skill at performing 
ADLs at home. Raw scores were selected a priori as recommended for research purposes (Achenbach, 1991). Age and sex were controlled in all analyses. Higher scores reflect better/ more consistent performance of ADLs.
ADHD Symptoms
The ADHD Rating Scale (ADHD-RS-4/5; DuPaul et al., 2016) teacher forms were used to assess the frequency and severity of ADHD symptoms along with other childhood psychopathology based on DSM criteria in children and adolescents aged 5 to 17 (18 items; 4-point Likert scale). The ADHD-RS-4/5 teacher report form was selected a priori to minimize the potential impact of mono-instrument and mono-informant bias for models predicting ADLs from ADHD symptoms (i.e., illusory correlations occurring when comparing subscales from the same informant or same rating scale). The ADHD-RS-4/5 comprises two symptom subscales: Inattention (9 items) and Hyperactivity-Impulsivity (9 items). Psychometric support for the ADHD-RS-4/5 includes high internal consistency (α=0.94) and test-retest reliability (r= 0.79 to 0.85; DuPaul et al., 2016). Internal consistency in the current sample was .94 (inattentive items) and .95 (hyperactive/impulsive items).
Conditional effect variables: Inattention & Hyperactivity/impulsivity.—Raw scores from the ADHD-RS-4/5 were used to assess inattentive and hyperactive/impulsive behaviors. Raw scores for ADHD symptoms were selected a priori as recommended for research purposes (Achenbach, 1991). Age and sex were controlled in all analyses. Higher scores reflect greater quantity/severity of teacher-reported ADHD symptoms.
Global Intellectual Functioning (IQ) and Socioeconomic Status (SES)
All children were administered the Verbal Comprehension Index (VCI) of a Wechsler (2014) scale (WISC-V). Hollingshead (1975) SES was estimated based on caregiver(s)’ education and occupation.
Data Analysis Overview
The current study was the first to examine the extent to which (1) pediatric ADHD is associated with impaired performance of ADLs; and (2) ADL difficulties reflect the outcome of the interfering effects of ADHD inattentive and/or hyperactivity/impulsive behavioral symptoms, both independently and as an outcome of the well-documented effects of underlying working memory difficulties on producing elevated ADHD symptoms. Thus, our analytic plan was organized into two tiers. In the first analytic tier, we conducted data screening/cleaning and examined the extent to which ADHD is associated with difficulties in ADL performance as hypothesized (Table 1).
In Tier 2, we conducted conditional effects analyses using PROCESS (Model 4; Hayes, 2013) with 10,000 bias-corrected, bootstrapped samples to analyze the relations among working memory, ADHD symptoms, and ADLs (Preacher, Rucker, & Hayes, 2007). Biascorrected, bootstrapped conditional effects modeling was preferred as it allows shared variance among predictors to be parsed according to theory and previous research. As such, this analysis was used to determine whether working memory performance predicted ADLs through two proposed conditional effects: ADHD inattentive and ADHD hyperactive/ impulsive symptoms. Working memory was modeled to predict ADHD symptoms, rather than vice versa, based on prior theoretical work and experimental evidence that increasing working memory demands evokes inattentive and hyperactive behavior (Kofler et al., 2010; Rapport et al., 2009), whereas working memory deficits remain large when covarying attentive behavior during testing (Kofler et al., 2010). Inattention and hyperactivity/ impulsivity were included as separate predictors based on evidence that they differentially predict relations between working memory and other ADHD-related impairments (e.g., Bunford et al., 2014; Kofler et al., 2018b). Additionally, ADHD symptoms were modeled as predictors of ADLs given conceptualizations of ADL difficulties as secondary features of ADHD. Importantly, the ADHD-RS-4/5 Inattention and Hyperactivity subscales were considered appropriate predictors as they do not contain any items that explicitly assess ADLs as indexed by the BASC-2/3 with one exception  (Reynolds & Kamphaus, 2015). Of 
note, the cross-sectional design precludes testing of competing models regarding directionality of effects (i.e., reversing arrows does not distinguish plausible models; 
Thoemmes, 2015). Effects are statistically significant if their 95% CIs do not contain 0.0.
Results
Power Analysis
Large effects were predicted based on large relations between working memory and ADL performance (d = 0.87; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010) and large relations between working memory and ADHD symptoms (d ≥ 2.0; Kasper et al., 2012). Our N of 141 exceeds the N = 34 required for bias-corrected bootstrapping to detect an effect of these expected magnitudes for α = .05 and power = .80 with one intermediate effect (Fritz & MacKinnon, 2007). Conservatively assuming partial mediation and approximately equal contributions of each mediator, N = 100 produced power = .94–.96 to detect the total indirect effect with two intermediate effects (Briggs, 2006). Power for detecting significance for each intermediate effect with N = 100 was .92–.94. Thus, the current study’s N of 141 is adequately powered to detect effects of the expected magnitude.
Tier 1: Preliminary Analyses and Group Differences
All independent and dependent variables were screened for univariate outliers, defined as values greater than 3 SD above or below the within-group mean. Seven data points (0.003% of data points) were identified as outliers and were corrected to the most extreme value 3 SD above or below the within-group mean. Task data from subsets of the current battery have been reported for subsets of the current sample to examine conceptually unrelated hypotheses in prior reports (please see Irwin et al., 2020). Data for the study’s primary outcome, ADLs, have not been previously reported. Inspection of Table 1 indicated that the ADHD group exhibited significantly higher ADHD symptoms (d = 0.80–0.90, p < .001) and lower working memory performance (d = 1.17, p < .001) as expected. Interestingly, children with ADHD also exhibited medium magnitude difficulties with ADLs as hypothesized (d = 0.61, p < .005), suggesting that approximately 38% of children with ADHD are perceived by their caregivers as demonstrating ADL impairments based on converting this effect size into the proportion of population non-overlap (Zakzanis, 2001). The ADHD and Non-ADHD groups did not differ on age, sex, or IQ (all p > .08). Age and sex were included as covariates in the conditional effects models. IQ was not included as a covariate based on compelling statistical, methodological, and conceptual rationale against covarying IQ when investigating cognitive processes in ADHD (Dennis et al., 2009). Intercorrelations among study variables are shown in Table 2.
Tier 2: Conditional Effects Models
As shown in Figure 1, results of the bias-corrected, conditional effects model indicated that children with lower working memory abilities had more difficulty consistently performing age-expected ADLs (β = .28, 95% CI = 0.11 to 0.46). Reduced working memory abilities also predicted greater inattentive (β = −0.40, 95% CI = −0.58 to −0.23) and hyperactive/ impulsive symptoms (β = −0.16, 95% CI = −0.34 to −0.01). In addition, greater inattentive symptoms, but not hyperactive/impulsive symptoms, predicted more difficulty completing ADLs (β = −0.36, 95% CI = −0.55 to −0.17) even after controlling for working memory.
Conditional effects of working memory on ADLs through cross-informant inattentive symptoms were significant (indirect effect: β = .15, 95% CI = 0.07 to 0.25, ER = .54). The direct effect of working memory on parent-reported ADLs was no longer significant after accounting for working memory’s effects on ADLs via the inattentive symptom pathway (95% CI includes 0.0), indicating that working memory’s impact on ADL performance was carried, in large part, via working memory’s role in regulating/maintaining attention. No conditional effects via the hyperactive/impulsive symptoms pathway were observed (95% CI includes 0.0).
Sensitivity Analyses
Finally, we conducted sensitivity analyses to probe the extent to which the results were influenced by our a priori decision to include age and sex as covariates. This involved repeating the Tier 2 analyses, this time without the statistical control for age and sex. Results were highly consistent with those reported above, with one notable exception: Without control for age and sex, there was no evidence for a direct effect of working memory on ADL performance (β = .14, 95% CI = −0.03 to 0.31 in the model without age/sex controlled vs. β = .28, 95% CI = 0.11 to 0.46 in the primary Tier 2 analyses reported above), highlighting the importance of controlling for developmental changes in these constructs. The indirect effect of working memory on ADLs via the attention problems pathway remained significant (β = .15, 95% CI = 0.07 to 0.27, ER = 1.0), and all other findings were consistent with those reported above, including direct effects of inattention on ADLs when controlling for working memory (β = −.40, 95% CI= −0.60 to −0.21) and no evidence for direct or indirect effects via the hyperactivity/impulsivity symptoms pathway (all 95% CIs include zero).
Discussion
The current study used a combination of cross-informant ratings of ADHD symptoms and ADL performance in conjunction with children’s performance on a battery of validated working memory tests (e.g., Fosco et al., 2020) to examine the extent to which ADL difficulties in pediatric ADHD reflect a behavioral outcome of underlying working memory difficulties, both directly and indirectly via working memory’s association with elevated ADHD symptoms. Additional strengths of the study include the use of a multi-method, multi-informant, and multi-task design and the inclusion of a clinically-evaluated and carefully-phenotyped sample of children with and without ADHD. Results from the current study indicated that a sizable minority of children with ADHD exhibit difficulties in their skill at consistently performing age-expected ADLs (d=0.61; 38% impaired). These difficulties appear to be related, to a significant extent, to their inattentive symptoms, both independently and as an outcome of their well-documented working memory difficulties. These findings were consistent with previous evidence indicating that deficits in ADLs are associated with both mild and severe degrees of cognitive decline in geriatric and adultADHD samples (Barkley & Murphy 2010; Barkley & Murphy, 2011; Jekel et al., 2015; 
Ranhoff, 1997; Stavro et al., 2011) and that working memory is a significant predictor of ADL performance (Cloutier et al., 2017; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010). These results extend previous findings by documenting the association between working memory and ADLs in children with ADHD, and suggest that working memory’s relation with ADL difficulties may be attributable, in large part, to working memory’s impact on inattention symptoms which in turn impact ADL performance.
Interestingly, ADHD inattentive symptoms independently predicted ADLs, even when controlling for working memory, whereas ADHD hyperactive/impulsive symptoms were not significantly associated with ADLs even at the bivariate level (Table 2). These findings were consistent with prior literature indicating that children with other neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disorder, exhibit difficulties with ADLs (Gilotty et al., 2002; Kottorp et al., 2003) and that measures of executive functioning predict ADL impairments in adults with ADHD both cross-sectionally (Barkley & Murphy 2010; Stavro et al., 2011) and longitudinally (Barkley & Fischer, 2011). These results extend previous findings by demonstrating that ADL difficulties in pediatric ADHD appear to be due, in part, to interference effects from inattentive symptoms. In other words, these results suggest that children with ADHD exhibit difficulties in ADLs in part due to their difficulties attending to the task at hand, rather than impairments resulting from their elevated gross motor movement/physical activity. These findings contrast with evidence indicating that ADL difficulties in children with chromosomal and/or neurological disorders are associated with fine and gross motor difficulties rather than cognitive functioning (Summers et al., 2008; Volman et al., 2006; Magalhães et al., 2011; Wang et al., 2012), and highlight the potential for different developmental pathways to lead to the same/similar difficulties at the phenotypic/behavioral endpoint across different syndromes. For children with ADHD, our results suggest that ADL difficulties are more closely associated with cognitive impairments (working memory) and interfering behaviors (inattention), rather than motor-related functions such as overactivity or impulsivity.
Previous literature indicates that the phenotypic expression of ADHD-related inattentive and hyperactive/impulsive behaviors may be driven, in part, by deficits in working memory (Barkley, 1997; Rapport et al., 2009; Karalunas et al., 2017; Kasper et al., 2012; Kofler et al., 2015), and that deficits in working memory in children with ADHD are associated with functional outcomes at school (Friedman et al., 2017, 2018; Kofler, Sarver et al., 2018; Simone et al., 2018) and with peers (Hoza, 2007; Kofler, Harmon et al., 2018). The present study tested the hypothesis that working memory would predict ADHD symptoms, which would in turn predict ADLs. We found partial support for this prediction, with indirect effects of working memory on ADLs through parent-reported inattentive but not hyperactive/impulsive symptoms. Thus, it appears that working memory may be implicated in ADL performance to the extent that underdeveloped working memory contributes to the expression of ADHD-related inattentive symptoms as they are perceived by teachers. That is, difficulties with ADLs in children with ADHD appear to reflect, in large part, the behavioral expression of underlying working memory deficits that result in difficulty attending to external stimuli for developmentally expected durations (e.g., Kofler et al., 2010; Rapport et al., 2009). This conclusion is consistent with findings in the adult and aging literature indicating that ADL impairments are driven in large part by cognitive deficits (Jekel et al., 2015; Ranhoff, 1997; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010; Woods et al., 2008) and extend previous findings by demonstrating this association in children with ADHD. An interesting implication of our findings is that they suggest that children with ADHD may not have ADL deficits per se, but rather that working memory ‘slips’ may produce interfering behaviors (e.g., inattentive symptoms) that in turn prevent these children from being able to consistently demonstrate their ADL skills at age-expected levels. In other words, children with ADHD may have learned to complete ADLs at developmentally expected levels (i.e., they possess the requisite knowledge and skills), but have difficulty consistently doing so due to interfering neurocognitive and behavioral factors. This hypothesis is of course speculative because the current study used a global measure of ADL skills, but is generally consistent with prior literature indicating that social problems in ADHD reflect difficulty consistently performing learned social skills rather than a lack of social knowledge or skills acquisition (Aduen et al., 2018), and extends previous findings by suggesting that differentiating ADL knowledge from performance difficulties may be a promising avenue for further research in this area.
Limitations
The current study has several strengths, including a relatively large and clinically evaluated sample of children and the multi-method, multi-informant, and multi-task design. Despite these methodological refinements and the carefully phenotyped sample, the following limitations must be considered when interpreting results. First, despite psychometric support for the use of the parent BASC Activities of Daily Living subscale, it provides an overall assessment of ADL performance rather than a fine-grained assessment of specific ADLs. As an initial study, this seemed the prudent course; however, the current findings cannot speak to whether ADHD may be associated with impairments in specific ADL skills. Thus, future studies are needed to replicate and extend these findings using more fine-grained ADL assessments (e.g., behavioral observations). Next, the current study used performance from validated working memory tests but did not include other executive and non-executive neurocognitive functions that may be related to ADHD symptoms and ADLs (Rosenburg, 2015; Thaler et al., 2012; Vaughan & Giovanello, 2010). Interestingly, the current literature base suggests that specific rather than domain-general cognitive domains may differentially influence an individual’s ability to perform ADLs (e.g., Razani et al., 2007; Royall et al., 2007), and prior research has shown than individuals’ level of ADL performance differs even within samples of individuals with intellectual disability (Lifshitz et al., 2008). In the current sample, IQ was not included as a covariate based on compelling statistical, methodological, and conceptual rationale against covarying IQ when investigating cognitive processes in ADHD (Dennis et al., 2009). In other words, covarying IQ would preclude conclusions regarding ADHD as a neurodevelopmental disorder by fundamentally changing our grouping variable, and remove significant variance associated with the outcomes of interest (Dennis et al., 2009). However, given the well documented heterogeneity of executive functioning among children with ADHD (Castellanos & Tannock, 2002; Kofler et al., 2019), it will be important for future work to consider the unique contributions of each executive function in addition to working memory as they relate to children’s performance of ADLs, as well as differentiate between skills deficits and performance deficits as it applies to ADLs (Aduen et al., 2018; Kofler, Harmon et al., 2018).
In that context, another strength of this study was the inclusion of a large sample of children with ADHD, given that the disorder’s neurocognitive heterogeneity was expected to provide a wider range of scores on the working memory tests and as such a greater likelihood of uncovering associations among children’s working memory abilities and ADLs. 
Nonetheless, the inclusion of children without ADHD may reduce specificity of the findings to ADHD, just as the oversampling of children with ADHD may reduce generalizability to the broader population of children. Similarly, co-occurring conditions are common in ADHD (Wilens et al., 2002) and therefore inclusion of children with these comorbidities was important to maximize external validity and generalizability of the larger study. We attempted to balance internal and external validity threats by recruiting a Non-ADHD group matched for the number of these Non-ADHD disorders. However, controlling for the number of other disorders does not perfectly equate the groups and thus future work is needed to examine more ‘pure’ (non-comorbid) ADHD samples.
Lastly, working memory was used as a predictor of ADLs given the preponderance of evidence indicating that working memory deficits may underlie ADHD’s phenotypic behavioral presentation for many if not most children with ADHD (Kofler et al., 2010; Rapport et al., 2009). Nonetheless, this conceptualization differs from models in the neurology literature, where illnesses such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and HIV are acquired illnesses that predict declines in working memory, which then in turn predict declines in ADL performance (Jekel et al., 2015; Ranhoff, 1997; Woods et al., 2008). In contrast, neurodevelopmental disorders such as ADHD are not acquired illnesses; rather, delayed/ altered development of working memory has been hypothesized to give rise to observable ADHD symptoms (e.g., Kofler et al., 2010; Rapport et al., 2009), which in turn interfere with ADL performance. In this context, we were unable to examine competing models regarding directionality due to the cross-sectional nature of our data (Thoemmes, 2015). Thus, experimental and longitudinal studies are needed to test for causality and directionality of the effects reported herein.
Clinical and Research Implications
Taken together, the current results indicate that a sizable minority of children with ADHD have difficulty completing their ADLs consistently, and suggest that these difficulties may be related, in large part, to their inattentive symptoms – both independently and via their underlying working memory difficulties. In contrast, ADHD hyperactive/impulsive symptoms do not appear to confer risk for difficulties with ADLs. Thus, these findings highlight an additional domain of functional impairment for children with ADHD (Aduen et al., 2018; Bunford et al., 2014; Hoza, 2007; Kofler, Harmon et al., 2018; Simone et al., 2018), while suggesting that directly treating ADL difficulties may not be the most effective strategy for helping these children perform their ADLs more consistently. That is, based on the current results we would speculate that ADL difficulties in ADHD may not reflect specific skill deficits, but rather the influence of interfering behaviors (i.e., inattentive symptoms) and neurocognitive vulnerabilities (i.e., working memory deficits). Of course, this hypothesis remains speculative because the current study was not an intervention study, but is consistent with recent evidence that the inefficacy of interventions targeting specific skill-sets (e.g., social skills training) in children with ADHD may be due to the fact that these children possess the age-expected skills but instead have difficulty implementing these skills consistently due to working memory and/or attention difficulties (Aduen et al., 2018; Kofler, Harmon et al., 2018).
Acknowledgements:
This work was supported in part by NIH grants (R34 MH102499, R01 MH115048, PI: Kofler). The sponsor had no role in design and conduct of the study; collection, management, analysis, and interpretation of the data; or preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript.
References
Achenbach TM (1991). Manual for the Teacher’s Report Form and 1991 profile. Univ Vermont/ Department Psychiatry.
Alderson RM, Hudec KL, Patros CH, & Kasper LJ (2013). Working memory deficits in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): An examination of central executive and storage/ rehearsal processes. Journal of abnormal psychology, 122(2), 532.
Arling G, & Williams AR (2003). Cognitive impairment and resource use of nursing home residents: a structural equation model. Medical Care, 802–812.
Arnold LE, Hodgkins P, Kahle J, Madhoo M, & Kewley G (2020). Long-term outcomes of ADHD: 
academic achievement and performance. Journal of Attention Disorders, 24(1), 73–85.
Aduen PA, Day TN, Kofler MJ, Harmon SL, Wells EL, & Sarver DE (2018). Social problems in ADHD: Is it a skills acquisition or performance problem?. Journal of Psychopathology and Behavioral Assessment, 40(3), 440–451.
Baddeley A (2007). Working memory, thought, and action. Oxford Press.
Barkley RA, & Fischer M (2011). Predicting impairment in major life activities and occupational functioning in hyperactive children as adults: Self-reported executive function (EF) deficits versus EF tests. Developmental Neuropsychology, 36(2), 137–161.
Barkley RA, & Murphy KR (2010). Impairment in occupational functioning and adult ADHD: the predictive utility of executive function (EF) ratings versus EF tests. Archives of Clinical Neuropsychology, 25(3), 157–173.
Biederman J, Monuteaux MC, Doyle AE, Seidman LJ, Wilens TE, Ferrero F, … & Faraone SV (2004). Impact of executive function deficits and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) on academic outcomes in children. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 72(5), 757.
Blank R, von Kries R, Hesse S, & von Voss H (2008). Conductive education for children with cerebral palsy: effects on hand motor functions relevant to activities of daily living. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 89(2), 251–259.
Bunford N, Brandt NE, Golden C, Dykstra JB, Suhr JA, Owens JS (2014). ADHD symptoms mediate the association between deficits in executive functioning and social impairment in children. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 43, 133–147.
Cantarella A, Borella E, Carretti B, Kliegel M, & de Beni R (2017). Benefits in tasks related to everyday life competences after a working memory training in older adults. International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, 32(1), 86–93.
Castellanos FX, & Tannock R (2002). Neuroscience of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: the search for endophenotypes. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 3(8), 617–628.
Cloutier S, Chertkow H, Kergoat MJ, Gauthier S, & Belleville S (2017). Natural history of the decline in instrumental activities of daily living prior to dementia in persons with mild cognitive impairment. Alzheimer’s & Dementia: The Journal of the Alzheimer’s Association, 13(7), P1136.
Conners CK, Pitkanen J, & Rzepa SR (2011). Conners 3rd Edition (Conners 3; Conners 2008). Encyclopedia of Clinical Neuropsychology. New York, NY: Springer, 675–678.
Conway ARA, Kane MJ, Bunting MF, Hambrick DZ, Wilhelm O, & Engle RW (2005). Working memory span tasks: A methodological review and user’s guide. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 12(5), 769–786.
Cook NE, Braaten EB, & Surman CB (2018). Clinical and functional correlates of processing speed in pediatric Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Child Neuropsychology, 24(5), 598–616.
Demetriou EA, Lampit A, Quintana DS, Naismith SL, Song YJC, Pye JE, … & Guastella AJ. (2018). 
Autism spectrum disorders: a meta-analysis of executive function. Molecular Psychiatry, 23(5), 1198–1204.
de Paula JJ, Diniz BS, Bicalho MA, Albuquerque MR, Nicolato R, de Moraes EN, … & Malloy-Diniz LF. (2015). Specific cognitive functions and depressive symptoms as predictors of activities of daily living in older adults with heterogeneous cognitive backgrounds. Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience, 7, 139.
DiStefano C, Zhu M & Mîndrilă D (2009). Understanding and using factor scores: Considerations for the applied researcher. Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation, 14, 1–11.
Duncan AW, & Bishop SL (2015). Understanding the gap between cognitive abilities and daily living skills in adolescents with autism spectrum disorders with average intelligence. Autism, 19(1), 64– 72.
DuPaul GJ, Power TJ, Anastopoulos AD, & Reid R (2016). ADHD rating scale-5 for children and adolescents: Checklists, norms, and clinical interpretation. New York: Guilford Press.
Friedman LM, Rapport MD, Raiker JS, Orban SA, & Eckrich SJ (2017). Reading comprehension in boys with ADHD: The mediating roles of working memory and orthographic conversion. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 45(2), 273–287.
Friedman LM, Rapport MD, Orban SA, Eckrich SJ, & Calub CA (2018). Applied problem solving in children with ADHD: The mediating roles of working memory and mathematical calculation. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 46(3), 491–504.
Fosco WD, Kofler MJ, Groves NB, Chan ES, & Raiker JS (2020). Which ‘Working’Components of Working Memory aren’t Working in Youth with ADHD?. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 1–14.
Gantschnig BE, Page J, Nilsson I, & Fisher AG (2013). Detecting differences in activities of daily living between children with and without mild disabilities. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 67(3), 319–327.
Gilotty L, Kenworthy L, Sirian L, Black DO, & Wagner AE (2002). Adaptive skills and executive function in autism spectrum disorders. Child Neuropsychology, 8(4), 241–248.
Goldstein S, & Naglieri JA (2010). Autism spectrum rating scales (ASRS) product overview. MultiHealth Syst Inc.
Gomez R, & Sanson A (1994). Effects of experimenter and mother presence on the attentional performance and activity of hyperactive boys. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 22, 517– 529.
Hayase D, Mosenteen D, Thimmaiah D, Zemke S, Atler K, & Fisher AG (2004). Age‐related changes in activities of daily living ability. Australian Occupational Therapy Journal, 51(4), 192–198. Hayes AF (2013). Introduction to mediation, moderation, and conditional process analysis: A regression-based approach. Guilford Press.
Hollingshead AB (1975). Four factor index of social status. Yale: New Haven, CT.
Hoza B (2007). Peer functioning in children with ADHD. Journal of Pediatric Psychology, 32(6), 655– 663.
James S, Ziviani J, & Boyd R (2014). A systematic review of activities of daily living measures for children and adolescents with cerebral palsy. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology, 56(3), 233–244.
Jekel K, Damian M, Wattmo C, Hausner L, Bullock R, Connelly PJ, … & Kramberger MG (2015). Mild cognitive impairment and deficits in instrumental activities of daily living: a systematic review. Alzheimer’s Research & Therapy, 7(1), 17.
Kasper LJ, Alderson RM, & Hudec KL (2012). Moderators of working memory deficits in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): a meta-analytic review. Clinical Psychology Review, 32(7), 605–617.
Katz S (1983). Assessing self‐maintenance: activities of daily living, mobility, and instrumental activities of daily living. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 31(12), 721–727. Kaufman J, Birmaher B, Brent D, … Ryan N (1997). Schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia for school-age children (K-SADS-PL): Initial reliability and validity data. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 36, 980–988.
Karalunas SL, Gustafsson HC, Dieckmann NF, Tipsord J, Mitchell SH, & Nigg JT (2017). 
Heterogeneity in development of aspects of working memory predicts longitudinal attention deficit hyperactivity disorder symptom change. Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 126(6), 774.
Kingdon D, Cardoso C, & McGrath JJ (2016). Research Review: Executive function deficits in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders and attention‐deficit/hyperactivity disorder–a meta‐analysis. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 57(2), 116–131.
Kofler MJ, Harmon SL, Aduen PA, Day TN, Austin KE, Spiegel JA, … & Sarver DE. (2018). 
Neurocognitive and behavioral predictors of social problems in ADHD: A Bayesian framework. Neuropsychology, 32(3), 344.
Kofler MJ, Irwin LN, Soto EF, Groves NB, Harmon SL, & Sarver DE (2019). Executive functioning heterogeneity in pediatric ADHD. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 47(2), 273–286.
Kofler MJ, Rapport MD, Bolden J, Sarver DE, & Raiker JS (2010). ADHD and working memory: The impact of central executive deficits and exceeding storage/rehearsal capacity on observed inattentive behavior. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 38, 149–161.
Kofler MJ, Sarver DE, Harmon SL, Moltisanti A, Aduen PA, Soto EF, & Ferretti N (2017). Working memory and organizational skills problems in ADHD. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 59(1), 57–67.
Kofler MJ, Sarver DE, & Wells EL (2015). Working memory and increased activity level (hyperactivity) in ADHD: Experimental evidence for a functional relation. Journal of Attention Disorders, 1087054715608439.
Kottorp A, Bernspång B, & Fisher AG (2003). Activities of daily living in persons with intellectual disability: Strengths and limitations in specific motor and process skills. Australian Occupational Therapy Journal, 50(4), 195–204.
Lawton MP, & Brody EM (1969). Assessment of older people: Self-maintaining and instrumental activities of daily living. The Gerontologist, 9(3), 179–186.
Lifshitz H, Merrick J, & Morad M (2008). Health status and ADL functioning of older persons with intellectual disability: Community residence versus residential care centers. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 29(4), 301–315.
Magalhães LC, Cardoso AA, & Missiuna C (2011). Activities and participation in children with developmental coordination disorder: A systematic review. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 32(4), 1309–1316.
Mares D, McLuckie A, Schwartz M, & Saini M (2007). Executive function impairments in children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder: Do they differ between school and home environments?. The Canadian Journal of Psychiatry, 52(8), 527–534.
Martyr A, & Clare L (2012). Executive function and activities of daily living in Alzheimer’s disease: a correlational meta-analysis. Dementia and geriatric cognitive disorders, 33(2–3), 189–203.
Miyake A, Friedman NP, Emerson MJ, Witzki AH, Howerter A, & Wager TD (2000). The unity and diversity of executive functions and their contributions to complex “frontal lobe” tasks: A latent variable analysis. Cognitive Psychology, 41, 49–100.
Miyake A, & Friedman NP (2012). The nature and organization of individual differences in executive functions: Four general conclusions. Current directions in psychological science, 21(1), 8–14.
Mlinac ME, & Feng MC (2016). Assessment of activities of daily living, self-care, and independence. Archives of Clinical Neuropsychology, 31(6), 506–516.
Nee DE, & Brown JW (2013). Dissociable frontal–striatal and frontal–parietal networks involved in updating hierarchical contexts in working memory. Cerebral Cortex, 23(9), 2146–2158.
Nigg JT, Willcutt EG, Doyle AE, & Sonuga-Barke EJ (2005). Causal heterogeneity in attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder: do we need neuropsychologically impaired subtypes?. Biological Psychiatry, 57(11), 1224–1230.
Polanczyk G, De Lima MS, Horta BL, Biederman J, & Rohde LA (2007). The worldwide prevalence of ADHD: a systematic review and metaregression analysis. American Journal of Psychiatry, 164(6), 942–948.
Polanczyk GV, Willcutt EG, Salum GA, Kieling C, & Rohde LA (2014). ADHD prevalence estimates across three decades: an updated systematic review and meta-regression analysis. International Journal of Epidemiology, 43(2), 434–442.
Preacher KJ, Rucker DD, & Hayes AF (2007). Addressing moderated mediation hypotheses: Theory, methods, and prescriptions. Multivariate Behavioral Research, 42, 185–227.
Raiker JS, Rapport MD, Kofler MJ, & Sarver DE (2012). Objectively-measured impulsivity and ADHD: Testing competing predictions from the working memory and behavioral inhibition models of ADHD. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 40, 699–713.
Razani J, Casas R, Wong JT, Lu P, Alessi C, & Josephson K (2007). Relationship between executive functioning and activities of daily living in patients with relatively mild dementia. Applied Neuropsychology, 14(3), 208–214.
Ranhoff AH (1997). Activities of daily living, cognitive impairment and other psychological symptoms among elderly recipients of home help. Health & Social Care in the Community, 5(3), 147–152. Rapport MD, Bolden J, Kofler MJ, Sarver DE, Raiker JS, & Alderson RM (2009). Hyperactivity in boys with ADHD: A ubiquitous core symptom or manifestation of working memory deficits? Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 37, 521–534.
Rapport MD, Orban SA, Kofler MJ, & Friedman LM (2013). Do programs designed to train working memory, other executive functions, and attention benefit children with ADHD? A meta-analytic review of cognitive, academic, and behavioral outcomes. Clinical Psychology Review, 33(8), 1237–1252.
Reynolds CR, & Kamphaus RW (2015). BASC-3: Behavior assessment system for children.
Rosenberg L (2015). The associations between executive functions’ capacities, performance process skills, and dimensions of participation in activities of daily life among children of elementary school age. Applied Neuropsychology: Child, 4(3), 148–156.
Royall DR, Lauterbach EC, Kaufer D, Malloy P, Coburn KL, & Black KJ (2007). The cognitive correlates of functional status: a review from the Committee on Research of the American Neuropsychiatric Association. The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences, 19(3), 249–265.
Tarle SJ, Alderson RM, Patros CHG, Lea SE, Hudec KL, & Arrington EF (2017). Attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder and phonological working memory: Methodological variability affects clinical and experimental performance metrics. Neuropsychology, 31(4), 383–394.
Thaler NS, Bello DT, & Etcoff LM (2012). WISC-IV profiles are associated with differences in symptomatology and outcome in children with ADHD. Journal of Attention Disorders, 17(4), 291–301.
Thames AD, Kim MS, Becker BW, Foley JM, Hines LJ, Singer EJ, … & Hinkin CH (2011). 
Medication and finance management among HIV-infected adults: the impact of age and cognition. Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, 33(2), 200–209.
Theule J, Wiener J, Tannock R, & Jenkins JM (2013). Parenting stress in families of children with ADHD: A meta-analysis. Journal of Emotional and Behavioral Disorders, 21(1), 3–17.
Thoemmes F (2015). Reversing arrows in mediation models does not distinguish plausible models. Basic and Applied Social Psychology, 37, 226–234.
Tomaszewski Farias S, Cahn-Weiner DA, Harvey DJ, Reed BR, Mungas D, Kramer JH, & Chui H (2009). Longitudinal changes in memory and executive functioning are associated with longitudinal change in instrumental activities of daily living in older adults. The Clinical Neuropsychologist, 23(3), 446–461.
Sarver DE, Rapport MD, Kofler MJ, Raiker JS, & Friedman LM (2015). Hyperactivity in ADHD: Impairing deficit or compensatory behavior? Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 43, 1219– 1232.
Simone AN, Marks DJ, Bédard AC, & Halperin JM (2018). Low working memory rather than ADHD symptoms predicts poor academic achievement in school-aged children. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 46(2), 277–290.
Stavro GM, Ettenhofer ML, & Nigg JT (2007). Executive functions and adaptive functioning in young adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Journal of the International Neuropsychological Society, 13(2), 324–334.
Summers J, Larkin D, & Dewey D (2008). Activities of daily living in children with developmental coordination disorder: dressing, personal hygiene, and eating skills. Human movement science, 27(2), 215–229.
Vaughan L, & Giovanello K (2010). Executive function in daily life: Age-related influences of executive processes on instrumental activities of daily living. Psychology and Aging, 25(2), 343– 355.
Valo S, & Tannock R (2010). Diagnostic instability of DSM–IV ADHD subtypes: Effects of informant source, instrumentation, and methods for combining symptom reports. Journal of Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology, 39, 749–760.
Volman MJ, Visser JJ, & Lensvelt-Mulders GJ (2007). Functional status in 5 to 7-year-old children with Down syndrome in relation to motor ability and performance mental ability. Disability and Rehabilitation, 29(1), 25–31.
Wager TD, & Smith EE (2003). Neuroimaging studies of working memory. Cognitive, Affective, & Behavioral Neuroscience, 3, 255–274.
Wang HY, Chen CC, & Hsiao SF (2012). Relationships between respiratory muscle strength and daily living function in children with cerebral palsy. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 33(4), 1176–1182.
Wells EL, Kofler MJ, Soto EF, Schaefer H, & Sarver DE (2018). Assessing working memory in children with ADHD: Minor administration and scoring changes may improve digit span backward’s construct validity. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 72, 166–178.
Wechsler D (2003). Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition. San Antonio, TX: The Psychological Corporation.
Wechsler D (2014). Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth/Fifth Edition. San Antonio: Pearson.
Weiss G, & Hechtman LT (1993). Hyperactive children grown up: ADHD in children, adolescents, and adults. Guilford Press.
Whalen CK, Henker B, Jamner LD, Ishikawa SS, Floro JN, Swindle R, … & Johnston JA. (2006). Toward mapping daily challenges of living with ADHD: Maternal and child perspectives using electronic diaries. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 34(1), 111–126.
Wilens TE, Biederman J, Brown S, Tanguay S, Monuteaux MC, Blake C, & Spencer TJ (2002). Psychiatric comorbidity and functioning in clinically referred preschool children and school-age youths with ADHD. Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 41, 262–268.
Willcutt EG, Nigg JT, Pennington BF, Solanto MV, Rohde LA, Tannock R, … & Lahey BB (2012). Validity of DSM-IV attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptom dimensions and subtypes. Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 121(4), 991.
Willoughby MT, Blair CB, & The Family Life Project Investigators. (2016). Measuring executive function in early childhood: A case for formative measurement. Psychological Assessment, 28(3), 319–330.
Woods SP, Iudicello JE, Moran LM, Carey CL, Dawson MSGrant I (2008). HIV-associated prospective memory impairment increases risk of dependence in everyday functioning. Neuropsychology, 22: 110–117.
Zakzanis KK (2001). Statistics to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth: formulae, illustrative numerical examples, and heuristic interpretation of effect size analyses for neuropsychological researchers. Archives of clinical neuropsychology, 16, 653–667. 
 
Figure 1. 
Cross-informant conditional effects models. Significant pathways are bolded. Age and sex were covaried but are not shown for visual clarity.
Table 1.
Descriptive Statistics.
 
Age	10.30	1.48	10.46	1.45	-	0.54	-	.55, n.s.
SES	49.01	10.60	49.81	11.98	-	0.38	-	.69, n.s.
VCI	103.42	14.98	107.58	11.83	0.31	1.67	-	.08, n.s.
Parent - Activities of Daily Living (T-scores)	35.70	9.58	42.58	9.00	0.74	4.13	-	<.001
Working Memory Component Score (z-scores)	−0.31	0.97	0.60	0.77	1.17	6.33	-	<.001
Parent - Activities of Daily Living (raw scores)	10.63	4.06	13.1	3.71	0.61	3.39	-	<.005
Parent - Activities of Daily Living Modified (raw scores)	9.03	3.61	11.0	3.22	0.57	3.21	-	.002
Teacher - Attention Problems (raw scores)	16.87	6.13	10.54	7.78	0.90	−5.34	-	<.001
Teacher - Hyperactivity/Impulsivity (raw scores)	12.59	8.80	6.06	7.09	0.80	−4.37	-	<.001
 
Note: Parent - Activities of Daily Living (Modified) reflects raw scores with the ‘organizes tasks’ item removed due to its similarity to a core 
ADHD inattentive symptom as described in the Method (footnote 2). A = Asian; B = Black/African American; MR = Multiracial; H = Hispanic; 
SES =Hollingshead SES total score; VCI=Wechsler Verbal Comprehension Index; W = White/Non-Hispanic 
Zero-order correlations.			Table 2.	
 
Variable
Age
VCI
Gender
WM
Parent - ADL
Teacher - AP
Teacher - HI	 
Age
1
−.03
.05
.41**
−.21*
−.12
−.19*	 
VCI
--
1
−.09
.39**
.23**
−.30**
−.08	 
Gender
--
--
1
.09
−.12
.09
.23**	 
--
.44**
--
1
1
.14
−.38**
−.20*	 
Parent - ADL
--
.23**
--
.26**
1
−.34**
−.07	 
Teacher - AP
--
−.30**
--
−.37**
−.37**
1
.52**	 
Teacher - HI
--
−.06
--
−.16
−.09
.51**
1
 
Note: Parent - ADL = Parent-rated Activities of Daily Living; Teacher - AP = Teacher-rated Attention Problems; Teacher - HI = Teacher-rated Hyperactivity/Impulsivity; WM = Working Memory Performance. Bottom triangle = Zero-order correlations; Top triangle = partial correlations (controlling for age and sex).
*
= significant at .05 level
**
= significant at .01 level
1
= p < .10
Practice
P R O M I S I N G P R A C T I C E S
Classroom Strategies for 
Improving Working Memory
 
by Mark Katz, PhD
WORKING MEMORY HAS BEEN DESCRIBED as our “mental workspace,” a place to hold information “online,” so to speak, long enough to manipulate it in order to solve a problem or complete a task. People who pay attention well seem to have a much easier time keeping information in their mental workspace than people with weak attentional skills.
It should come as no great surprise, perhaps, that research shows people with ADHD often experience problems in working memory. But is the reverse also true? Can those with problems in working memory also experience problems in attention? “Yes, they can,” says British cognitive psychologist Susan Gathercole, a professor at York University.
According to Gathercole, learning tasks that children are required to carry out in class every day often place significant demands on their working memory. And in any one classroom, children will vary tremendously in their working memory capacity. For some children, working memory demands simply far exceed their working memory capacity. As a result, they lose the information they need to successfully complete the task they’re working on. And once the information is lost, it’s not likely to be retrieved. The child is then forced to guess at the correct answer, or start over. Eventually, many simply abandon the task. And once they do, they’re no longer paying attention.
Of the hundreds of children with poor working memory that Gathercole has studied, not one has ever been described by a teacher as having a memory problem. Instead, they are described as inattentive, as daydreamers, or as poorly focused. And that’s exactly how they appear. Poor working memory, in other words, can lead to attention problems. 
Constantly forgetting the information needed to successfully complete academic tasks takes its toll over the long run. According to Gathercole, it’s among the reasons why children with poor working memory often fall behind academically. “By identifying these children early on,” she says, “and then providing them the supports they need to succeed, we can prevent academic problems down the road.” Gathercole and her colleagues developed the following sevenstep process designed to accomplish this (described in the sidebar on page 7):
1.	Recognize working memory failures.
2.	Monitor the child.
3.	Evaluate the working demands on learning activities.
4.	Reduce working memory load.
5.	Be prepared to repeat.
6.	Encourage the use of memory aids.
7.	Develop the child’s use of strategies for supporting memory.
Lifespan implications of poor working memory
“Poor working memory, in and of itself, should be considered a significant risk factor for academic problems,” says Gathercole, “regardless of whether it co-occurs with other conditions, such as ADHD.” Studies by Gathercole and her colleagues show that more than eighty percent of children with poor working memory eventually fall behind their peers academically. And the same is true for students in college. Poor working memory appears to have lifespan implications. 
 
A clinical and consulting psychologist, Mark Katz is the director of Learning Development Services, an educational, psychological, and neuropsychological center located in San Diego. He is a contributing editor to Attention magazine and a member of its editorial advisory board, a former member of CHADD’s professional advisory board, and a recipient of the CHADD Hall of Fame Award.
6Attention

 

 

Learning and Memory
 
Henry L. Roediger 111
Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA
Jeffrey D. Karpicke
Washington Cnicersity, St. Louis, Missouri, USA
Glossary
conceptual tests Measures of primina using retrieval cues that are conceptuallv related to studied items; these tests are considered to be conceptuallv driven because perforInance on them is affected by manipulating conceptual (meaning-based) processing.
cued recall A technique in which participants are proxided with retrieval cues and are asked to recall studied items related to the cues.
explicit memorv tests Measures of conscious, intentional recollection of specific learning events.
free recall A test in which participants recall as many studied items as they can, in any order they choose. implicit memory tests Indirect measures of retention.
perceptual tests Measures in which participants are asked to identify or complete degraded stimuli; these tests are considered to be perceptually driven because performance on them is affected by manipulating perceptual processing. priming Improvement in performance on a test that assesses retention indirectlv; the measure of priman- interest in ilnplicit memorv tests.
recognition tests Measures in which test participants are asked to decide. whether they recognize test items from the studv list, amid distracters or lures a yes/no recognition test). or are asked to pick out the correct test item from a set containing distracter items (a forced-choice recognition test). word fragment completion Test in which participants are presented with word fragments and are asked to complete them; priming is measured as the improved abilitv to complete fragnnents with words that had been previouslv presented.
Learning and memory can be measured in a variety of wavs. Some of the prolllinent methods of measuring
 
retention are based on several popular paradigms used in cognitive psychology. These are survevecl in this article; coverage is selective and other techniques exist for more specialized purposes. Different measures of Inemorv, even for the same experiences, mav not always agree in their assessinent, and such dissociations alnong memory tests proxide important insights into the proper understanding of human tnemory.
Origins of Memory Measurement
Achievements of Hermann Ebbinghaus
Encyclopedia of Social Measurement, Volunne 2 02()()5, Elsevier Inc. All Rights Reserved.	479
The measurement of learning and memorv dates back to the seminal work of Hermann Ebbinghaus, who developed the first reliable measures of memory and published his original results in 1885 in his great monograph, Memory: A Contribution to Experinzental Psychology. Ebbinghaus created lists of nonsense svllables (e.g.  JUK-WAF-KOB, etc.) that varied in terms of their length. He measured the number of trials (or the amount of time) it took to learn each series of syllables, to accomplish one perfect recitation of the entire list, a measure he called original learning. After a retention interval that could last several minutes, hours, days, or even weeks, Ebbinghaus measured the nurnber of trials (or the time) it took to relearn the list of syllables. The difference between measures of original learning (OL) and later relearning (RL) is known as the savings in relearning. For example, if it took 20 trials to learn a series of syllables perfectly during original learning and, later, it took 10 trials to relearn the series, the savings in relearning would be trials. Ebbinghaus expressed retention performance as a savings score, defined as [(0L -RL) OLI x 100 (or 50% sayings, in this exanil)le 
One beauty of the savings method, and one reason Ebbinghaus preferred it, was that retention could be measured independently from whether the person being tested could consciousl\ recall amthing from the original learning experience. Even if a person does not have any recollection ofthe original list, retention ofthe experience can be detected by the Inethod of calculating savings in relearning. Thus, a decade before Freud proposed his ideas about unconscious melilories, which led several generations of psvchologists to wonder how unconscious Inemories could be studied einpirically, Ebbinghaus had already supplied one pronlising solution to the problem: the method of savings in relearning.
Strength Theory and Measurement
One beguiling idea about human memory is that rnemories varv in terms of a unidilnension•al quantity, often referred to as "memory strength." Memories that can be easily recalled are thought to have greater strength  whereas those that can be recalled only with difficulty are thought to be weaker. Although (without further elaboration strength theorv silnpl\ redescribes the phenolllenon to be explained. nonetheless, the notion of  strength has been reifie(l in several conceptions of Inemory and still holds currency in various forms even today. Strength theorv also makes a strong prediction regarding the measurement of noenoorx : if memorv strength is the critical qualitv determinin(l performance on any Inemory test, then different Ineasures of memory should be correlated (even though they Illay vary in their ability to detect tnemories of different strengths). That is, although sonne measures mav be more sensitive than others, all vnenorv tests ultimatelv assess the same underlying qual  ity of mem01Y strength.
Consider the following simple example. A brpical laboratory method of assessing retention involves the initial presentation of a list of words and thc measurement of performance on one or more rnenun•y tests given at a later tilne. Consider five words (itenms A, B, C, D, and E) presented within a longer list ofwords. After studying the list, one group of individuals is given a sheet of paper and simplv asked to recall as nyanv of the words as thev can remember, in any order they choose. Assume that B and D are recalled on this flee recall test. A second group of individuals is given a noelnory test in which words that are associated with the studied words are presented as cues. For example, if "chair" had been a word presented on the study list, "table" Inight be given as a cue. The study participants might now recall more items on this cued recall test than they could on the free recall test. Finally, a third group ofindividuals is given a memory test in which items that had actually been presented on the studv list (such as chair) are mixed in with other plausible candidate items that had not been presented (such as stool). In this recognition melnory test, study participallts are asked to identify the itelns that had been presented on the original studv list.
The ideas behind strength theon are illustrated in Fig. l. The different items presented on the studv list
 
(A through E) vary in terms of their strength, with items B and D being the strongest. According to strength theory, free recall is an insensitive naeasure of memory, because only Inelnories with the greatest level of strength are recalled. Free recall tests require a great amount of strength to cross the conversion threshold for recall, indicated by the top dashed line in Fig. l. Cued recall tests are more sensitive measures and are able to detect weaker memories, such as item C in Fig. l. Finalk, recognition menuory tests are the most sensitive Ineasures of mem01Y strength; they are able to detect all iteTns recalled in free and cued recall tests and one additional item E) that was too weak to be detected bv the other Inethods. In short, the principal   of strength theolv are that particular memories vamy in terms of their strength and that methods of assessing retention dilTer only in terms of their sensitivity to Inernory strength.
This storv is tidv but wrong. In fact, différent measures of memory assessed across items, people, or other independent variables are not always positively correlated, as predicted strength theory. In fact, measures of memory may be completely uncorrelated or even negatively correlated xvith each other. For exalnple, consider the effects o word frequencv i.e., the frequencv with which a word occurs in a language) on Inemory performance measured on two clifTérent meni01Y tests. In free recall  tests, high-frequency words tend to be better recalled
Free recall
Cued recall
Recognition
Memory traces
Figure I Strength theory. DifTerent memorv traces (A through E) vary in terms of their strength and different measures of I'llennory differ in their sensitivity to memory strength.
than low-frequencv words are. Thus, it is reasonable to conclude that high-frequency words are stronger collipared to low-frequency words. However, in recognition Inelnory tests, low-frequencv words better recognize(l than high-frequency words, leading to the odd conclusion that low-frequency words Inust have greater Inenujry strength than high frequency xvords. Neither conclusion is correct. Instead, interactions between independent variables and performance on different memcny tests indicate that strength theory is simply the wrong way to conceptualize human me,lnorv. DifT&rent measures of Inenoorv do not assess a single qualitv that varies along a single dimension.
Encoding/Retrieval Interactions and Their Implications
Processes of learning and menujry are typically conceptualized as invoking three stages: encoding, storage, and retrieval. Encoding is the initial registration ancl acquisition of information, storage is the maintenance of information over time in the nervous system (represented as a Inelnory trace), and retrieval is the process whereby stored information is brought back into conscious awareness or otherwise affects ongoing Strength theory essentially proposes that encoding conditions will produce main effects on performance measured on different memory tests and will never interact with retrieval conditions, because different memorv tests silnpl\  vary in terms of their sensitivitv to memorv strength  However, the literature on hunran memory is replete with exalnples in which encoding and retrieval conditions interact. The example Inentioned previouslv, that highfrequencv words are better recalled than low-frequencx  words are, whereas low-frequencv words are better recognized than high-frequency words are, is one example of an encoding/retrieval interaction.
Larry Jacoby has (lesigned ccnnpelling experiments deI-nonstrating that two different Illeasures of noemorv with great surface similarity can be uncorrelated or even negatively correlated. Participants in Jacoby's experilnents were presented with lists ofwords under various study conditions and were given one of two different menoorv tests. One (Troup of indi\iduals was given a standard ves/no recognition memory test, in which they were presented with a long list of test words and were asked to determine which words had been previously studied. The other group ofindividuals was given a test that invok ed identifyingwords presented at verv
 
fast rates (around 30 Insec per word . The proportion of words correctly identified was the dependent Ineasure. Some of the words flashed during the test had been presented on the study list but other test words had not been  studied. In this speeded word identification test. the improved ability to name the briefly flashed words that had been presented during the study phase is known as pHming.
In one of Jacoby's experiments, the independent variable was the level of processing of words during the study phase. Students were presented with one of three questions that oriented them toward either the surface features of the target word (e.g., "Is the word in all capitals?"), the sound of the word (e.g., "Does the word rhyme with chair?" ) , or the meaning of the word (e.g., "Is the word a type of animal?" ) before the presentation of each target word e.g., BEAR). These three different orienting questions manipulated the level of processing that individuals performed on each word. The effects of levels of processing on performance in the two different Inetnory tests are depicted in Fig. 2. In the recognition noemors test, the fipical levels of processing effect was observed: individuals were best at recognizing words they had processed at a meaningful level and worst at recognizing words they had processed at only a surface level, whereas processincr the sounds of the \vords produced intertnecliate recognition perfbnnance. In contrast, consider performance on the speeded word identification test, shown in the right panel of Fig. 2. In this test, priming was measured as the difference in performance between naming studied and nonstuclied \vorcls. Although all of the prillling scores were positive, indicating retention of the studied words, all three encoding conditions produced equivalent levels of prinling! Levels of processing, which had such a profound effect on recognition had no effect on priming. Although both tests were measuring retention of the sanie list of items, the two measures were completely uncorrelated in this experiment.
In another experiment, Jacoby (lennonstratecl that Ineasures of recognition memory and speeded word identification could even be negativelv correlated. In this experiment, individuals studied a list of words under one of three clifTörent encoding conditions: they were either asked to read the target words in a neutral context (XXXX-cold), to read each word paired with its opposite (hot-cold), or to generate each target word given its opposite (hot-????). Thus, in all three conditions, participants said out loud the same list of target words, but the Ineans of having participants produce the words diff&red drannaticalh. The effects of these encoding manipulations on perfbrmance in the two different memory tests are shown in Fig. 3. Although generating the target words produced the best performance on the recognition test and reading the words in a neutral context produced the worst perforrnance a finding  as the "generation effect"), the opposite pattern of results was observed in the speeded word identification test: reading the words proclucecl better identification perfbrmance than did generating the words! The results of Jacobv's experiment demonstrate that two
	Recognition memory test	Word identification test
 0.30
	Surface	Sound 	Meaning	Surface	Sound	Meanincy
Level of processing
Figure 2 Levels ofprocessing during encoding have a profound effect on recognition                  performance, but no effect on speeded word identification. The two memory tests are not correlated. Based on data from Jacoby and Dallas (1981).
	Recognition memory test	Word identification test
 
	Neutral 	Opposite Generate 	Neutral 	Opposite Generate
	(XXXX-c01d) (hot-cold) (hot-2'?'?'?) (XXXX-c01d) (hot-cold)	 	 	 	 	 	   	  	 
Encoding condition
Figure 3 Generating words during encoding produced better recognition, conopared to simply reading words (the generation effect). In contrast, reading words produced better performance on the word identification test, compared to generating words. The two rnelnorv tests are negatively correlated. Based on data from Jacoby
(1983).
Ineasures of memory that appear to be verv similar on the surface mav be negativelv correlated NNith each other under some circumstances.
Interactions between encoding and retrieval conditions clenlonstrate that Ineasures of retention can reveal positive, zero, or negative correlations with one another. These encoding/retrieval interactions have an important implication for understanding human memorv: although the concept of memorv is labeled with a single word, it is hardly a single entity. Many different types of memory exist, and there are several different valid measures of memory. Some of the most prominent wavs to measure memorv are considered in the following discussions.
Explicit Measures of Retention
One important distinction in the field of human memorv
 
is that between explicit and implicit measures of memory. Briefly, explicit memory tests involve conscious, intentional recollection. If vou are asked to describe what vou had fbr dinner two nights ago, vou must mentally travel back in time and retrieve information about that specific event. Explicit retrieval involves conscious awareness of this mental time travel. Endel Tulving has referred to explicit retrieval as involving the use of episodic memorv, a memory svstem that enables people to remember their personally experienced past. There are several differences between explicit and implicit measures of retention; in the next section, several different explicit tests commonly used in research on human memorv are described.
Free Recall
In most explicit tests of memory, participants are exposed to a set of material on which thev will be tested at a later point in time. The material can consist of words, pictures, sentences, stories, videotapes, and other tvpes of data. In a free recall test, participants are asked to recall as many of the studied itelns as they can, in any order they choose. Because no overt retrieval cues are provided, thev must relv on their own strategies in order to retrieve the items. Free recall is perhaps the most effortful explicit memory test.
Cued Recall
In a cued recall test, participants are provided with retrieval cues and are asked to recall the studied items related to the cues. Retrieval cues can have a high or low associative strength a measure of their degree of association NNith the target words). For example, "table" might be a strong cue to retrieve the word "chair," whereas "glue" would be a weak cue in this case. A rehieval cue can also be a graphemic cue, in which a portion of the word is prmided at test (e.g., "ta or le" or "t b "). Yet another type of retrieval cue is a phonemic or rh\ming cue: participants mav be told to recall studied words that rhyme with the cue words. For example, "bear" might be pro\idecl as a cue to recall "chair." Although these are the most common types of retrieval cues, others can also be developed.
Recognition Tests
Recognition memory tests are perhaps the most popular In easures ofexp]icit memory used in cognitive psvchologv. There are two basic types of recognition memory tests. In a free choice or yes/no recognition menu)ry test, participants are presented with a long list of test words and are asked to sav "ves" if thev recognize a word from the study list (thus, thev are free to say "yes" or "no" to each item . For example, ifparticipants studied 100 words, thev might be presented with 200 words during the test (the 100 studied words mixed in with 100 distracter words) and asked to make a yes/no response for each item. Two basic measures of recognition performance are obtained in this test: the hit rate (the probability of sa_ving "yes" to words that were actually studied and the false alarm rate (the probability of saving "yes" to words that were not studied). The false alarm rate can be interpreted as a measure of false recognition and can also be used to correct
performance for guessing by subtracting the false alarm rate from the hit rate). Although a yes/no recognition memory test can be thought of as a 2-point scale for judging recognition, the scale can also be expanded by asking participants to provide confidence ratings. For example, participants might be asked to judge each iteln according to a 6-point scale, ranging from I (sure the item was not studied) to 6 (sure the item was studied). Such fine-grained scales provide the researcher with Inore information regarding participants' decisions during the recognition Inen-lorv test.
The other primary- five of recognition memory test is the forced choice recognition Inemory test. In a forced choice test, participants are presented with several alternatives on the test (one preliouslv studied item embedded among several distracter or lure items and are required to choose the item that they think was presented in the study list. For example, participants might be presented with  'chair table dresser lamp" and asked to choose the item that thev studied. If all of the response alternatives are equallv likelv to have been studied the guessing level can be determined depending on the number of alternatives. For example, in a two-alternative test, 50% reflects chance-level performance, whereas in a three-alternative test, 33% reflects chance-level performance.
Although recognition and recall tests are both explicit measures of memory, they do not always produce the same results. As mentioned previously, although people are better at recalling high-frequency words than low-frequency words, they are better at recognizing low-frequencv words than high-frequency words. As another example, when adults of difT&rent ages are compared in their performance on a free recall test, older adults typically recall less than vounger adults do. However, on recognition memory tests, older adults often perform just as well as younger adults do. These dissociations illustrate that recall and recognition memory tests measure different aspects of retention and cannot be, considered equivalent.
Paired Associate Learning
Another popular method of studying Inemory is paired associate learning. In a paired associate learning test, participants are presented with pairs of items, such as knight—heaven, elephant—house, flower—camera. and so on. Later, thev are given the left-hand member of the pair e.g., knight) and are asked to recall the righthand member of the pair (heaven). This type of paired associate learning test measures the forward association between the pairs ofwords that is formed during learning. Research ers can also investigate backward associations bv providing the right-hand member (heaven and asking participants to recall the left-hand member (knight). In general, recall of forward associations is better than recall of backward associations. Because forming associations tunong experiences is thought to be a basic mechanism of learning, paired associate learning has been investigated since the beginning of memory research, notably by M ary Calkins, in 1894. Note that the paired associate learning procedure can be considered a type of cued recall.
Serial Recall
Although paired associate learning has been used for over 100 years, serial recall is actuallv the oldest memorv paracligm, first used by Francis Nipher in 1878 and by Ebbinghaus in 1885. In a serial recall test, participants are presented with a series of items (such as digits, letters, words, or pictures and are asked to recall the items in the order in which they were presented, working from the beginning to the end of the series. Recalling a telephone nunlber is an everyday example of a serial recall task: the digits in a telephone nulnber must be remembered in correct sequential order. Thus, memorv both for the items and for the order in which they occurred is critical. A more difficult variation on this task is backward serial recall, in which a person is presented with a sequence, such as 7923948, and is asked to recall the sequence in backward order (8493297). Backward recall is often used in melnory• assessment batteries, because people with brain clanrage, for example, show greatly impaired performance on this type of task.
Implicit Measures of Retention
In addition to the explicit Ineasures of memory, there is an entire other class of tests, implicit memorv tests; these are superficiallv similar to explicit tests, but measure reten  tion indirectly. For example, consider an experiment in which some participants are presented with a list of pictures (with one being of an elephant) and other participants are presented with a list of words (the names of the pictures, so the word "elephant" is presented). Following this initial presentation phase, participants are told that they will now perform a difTérent, unrelated task, and nothing is said about testing their memorv for the list of items. In one such test, participants are presented with word fragments ("e e h n " and are asked to complete them (as in the game SVheel of Fortune . Some of the correct answers, such as "elephant,' were presented on the study list, whereas others are not. The difference in the ability to complete studied versus nonstudied fragnnents is a measure of prinfng, the Ineasure of primary interest in studies of implicit memory.
In the rest of this section, two main types of implicit memory tests, perceptual tests and conceptual tests, are described.
Perceptual Implicit Memory Tests
Perceptual tests present a puzzle or challenge to the perceptual system. Participants are typically asked to identify or complete a degraded stimulus, such as identifving a brieflv flashed item or completing an object presented in a fragmented format. These implicit memory tests are considered to be perceptually driven because performance on them is affected greatly by manipulations of perceptual processing and less (if at all) bi manipulations of meaning-based processing. Several examples are considered in the following discussions.
Word Fragment Completion
In a word fragment completion test, individuals are presented word fragments and are asked to complete them, which is difficult if the correct answer has not been recently primed and much easier if it has been primed. In a typical word fragment completion experiment, the probability of completing a fragment that \vas not primed is about 0.30, and the probability of completing fragments after studying a list ofwords is about 0.60 (a 30% priming effect). However, after studying a series of pictures (such as a picture of an elephant), negligible priming effects are observed (0—5%), which indicates that even though [he concept (elephant) mav be primed, performance on a word fragment completion test depends on priming specific perceptual representations. In contrast, on explicit memorv tests such as recall or recognition, pictures are remembered better than words are, a finding known as the "picture superioritv effect." Changes in presentation modality (i.e., auditory or visual) also affect priming in word fragment completion. Visual presentation of words produces the greatest amount of priming, whereas auditorv presentation produces reduced levels ofpriming. The effects of presentation modality on word fragment completion proside additional evidence that it is a perceptually driven test.
Word Stem Completion
In a word stem completion test, individuals are presented with the first three letters of a word ("ele ") and are asked to complete the stem with the first word that comes to mind. This test differs from word fragment completion because participants could potentiallv produce several different words from the same stem ("element, elegant, elevate, eleven," etc.). Priming in a word stem completion test is Ineasured as the difference between the ability to complete primed word stenos versus those that were not prilned. Like word fragment completion tests, perfornyance on word stem completion tests is also affected by perceptual manipulations.
Word Identification
Prilllin o can also be measured in a word identification test. In a tvpical word identification test, participants are asked to identify briefly presented words, and priming is measured as the difference between identifying previously studied versus nonstudied words. Pritming in word identification tests can also be measured under auditorv presentation conditions, in which participants might be asked to identify words presented against a background ofnoise.
Other Perceptual Tests
There are several other implicit memorv tests that are perceptual in nature. For example, participants might be presented with picture fragments and, fbllowing the sallie logic presented previously, asked to guess the identitv of the picture. Likewise, there are several auditorv implicit memorv tests, in which test words are presented in noise or with portions of the words deleted. Because these tests are also afTected greatly by manipulations of perceptual processing during encoding, they are classified as perceptual implicit memorv tests.
Conceptual Implicit Tests
In conceptual implicit memory tests, participants are provided with cues that are conceptuallv related to primed itelns. \Vhereas perceptual tests are affected bv manipulations of perceptual processing, conceptual tests are not affected by perceptual manipulations but, instead, are affected bv manipulating conceptual (meaning-based) processing. Three examples are categorv association, word association, and general knowledge tests.
Category Association
In categorv association tests, participants are presented with lists of items such as "elephant") during an initial phase and are later asked to generate as manv instances from a category (such as "animals") as they can during a brief testing period (lasting 3()—60 seconds). Priming is measured as the greater probabilitN of producing words that had been presented earlier than words that were not presented. In category association and other conceptually driven tests, priming is increased when the words are initially encoded in a way that emphasizes their meaning rather than other aspects of the words (such as the surface  or sound of the words).
Word Association
Word association tests are velY similar to category association tests. However, the retrieval cue in a word association test is an associate of the target word such as '-tusk"), rather than the namne of a categorv. Priming in word association tests is also affected by manipulations of conceptual processing during encoding.
General Knowledge Tests
As the name implies, general knowledge tests require participants to answer general knowledge questions. For example, they might be asked, "What animal aided the general Hannibal in his attack on Rome?" Participants who had   been presented with the word 'Celephant" will be more likelv to produce the correct answer to this question, compared to participants who had not been primed with the correct answer. Once again, priming on this test is not affected by manipulating perceptual processing ofthe studied words (e .g., modal i tv ofpresentation  but is affected bv manipulating conceptual processing.
Other Measures of Memory
In addition to the measures of learning and memory already discussed, there are many more ways to test meniory. Several tests have been designed to measure working memorv capacitv, which is the abilitv to hold information in mind and resist interfering information. One popular measure of working memory capacity is the operation span task, in which test participants are presented with a series of math problems followed by target words (for example, "12 >< 8 96, \VINE"). Participants must read the problem out loud, sav whether it is true or false, and then read the target word. After a series of 2 to 10 operations such as these, participants are asked to recall all of the target words in the order in which they were presented. The average length of the lists that are recalled in correct serial order is the participant's operation span. Nleasures of working memory capacity such as the operation span task are correlated with measures of general fluid intelligence and also predict perfornvance on a wide variety of other cognitive tasks.
Other memorv tests have been designed to measure autobiographical memory, which is a person's memory fior their own life histomy. One popular technique for measuring autobiographical memomy is the Galton—Crovitz cue word method, in which participants are presented with a word or phrase nanoing a common object or activitv and are asked to recollect an experience from their lives related to this cue. For example, a person who is presented with the cue "nurse" may recall an event from when they were 5 years old in which they went to the hospital and were frightened by a scarv nurse. One finding
frotn research using this technique is that people in later lif@ (50 years and older) most frequently retrieve memories from the period of their life lasting from late adolescence to young adulthood (roughly ages 16 to 25). Experiences from these formative years seem especiallv likely to come to mind.
There are also several standardized measures of memory used in educational testing and neuropsychological testing (for example, to assess whether a person with brain damage has memorv impairments . The NVechsler Memory Scale and the California Verbal Learning Test are two widely used standardized meniory tests. Tests such as the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) or even different measures ofintelligence can also be considered as tests that, in
 Ineasure recall of information learned during a lifetime similar to the general knowledge tests) 
Concluding Remarks
Although measuring human learning and memorv mav  seein to be a straightforward enterprise at first blush, there is no single correct method of measuring retention. Instead, several diverse measures are used for different purposes to assess various aspects of a person's memomv. Most importantly, difTérent methods of testing memory for the sanie experiences can be completely uncorrelated or even negativelv correlated with each other. These findings have important implications for our conceptualization oflnemon•. Memorv does not refer to a single, unitarv property of the nnind, and dissociations an•ong measures of retention indicate that several different memory processes and systems work together to produce the complexitv of human memorv.
See Also the Following Articles
Behavioral 	Psvcholog • Cognitive	Maps • Cognitive
 • N'lusic Cognition • Spatial Cognition and
Perception
Further Reading
Balota, D. A. Dolan, P. O.. and Duchek, J. M. 2000).  changes in healthv older adults. In The Oxford Handbook of Memory E. Tul\ing and F. I. M. Craik, eds.), pp. 395—410. Oxford University Press, Oxford.
Blaxton, T. A. (1989). Investigating dissociations among memorv measures: Support for a transfer-appropriate processing framework. J. Exp. Psychol. Learn. Mem. cognit. 15, 657-668.
Calkins, M. W. (1894). Association: 1. Psychol. Ret. 1, 476-483. Conway, M. A. (1996). Autobiographical Inenncny. In Memory (E. L. Bjork and R. A. Bjork, eds.), pp. 165 194. Academic Press- San Dieao.
Craik, F. I. NT., and Tulving, E. (1975). Depth of processing and the retention of words in episodic memory. J. Exp. Psychol. Gen. 104, 268-294.
Ebbinghaus, H. (1964). Mejnory.• A Contribution to Experimental Psychology (H. A. Ruger and C. E. Bussenius. trans. . Dover, New York. (Original work published in 1885.)
Engle, R. W. (2002). Working memory capacity as executive attention. Curr. Dir. Psychol. Sci. Il, 19—23.
Freud, S. , and Breuer, J. (1960). Studies on Hysteria (J. Strachey, trans.). Avon Books, New York. Original work published in 1895.)
Gregg, V. (1976). Word frequency, recognition and recall. In Recall and Recognition (J. Brown, ed.), pp. 183—216. Wilev, New York.
Jacoby, L. L., and Dallas, M. (1981 . On the relationship between autobiographical memorv and perceptual learning. J. Exp. Psychol. Gen. 110, 306-340.
Jacoby, L. L. (1983). Rememnbering the data: Analyzing interactive processes in reading. J. Verbal Learn. Verbal Behav. 22, 485—508.
Nipher- F. E. (1878). On the distribution of errors in numbers written from memory. Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis 3, ccx—ccxi.
Roediger- H. L., Marsh, E. J. , and Lee, S. C. (2002). Varieties of memory. In Stevens' Handbook of Experimental Psychologt]. Third Edition, Volume 2: Alenzory and Cognitive Processes D. L. Medin and Il. Pashler, eds.). pp. 1—41. \Vilev, New York.
Tulving, E. (1983). Elements of Episodic Meonory. Clarendon, Oxford.
\Veldon, M. S., and Roediger, H. L. (1987). Altering retrieval demands reverses the picture superioritv effect. Mem. cognit. 15, 269-280.
© 2023 American Psychological Association	2024, Vol. 38, No. 1, 1–16
ISSN: 0894-4105	https://doi.org/10.1037/neu0000920
Working Memory and Math Skills in Children With and Without ADHD
Fatou Gaye, Nicole B. Groves, Elizabeth S. M. Chan, Alissa M. Cole,
Emma M. Jaisle, Elia F. Soto, and Michael J. Kofler
Department of Psychology, Florida State University
Objective: Children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) frequently demonstrate deficits in working memory and in multiple domains of math skills, including underdeveloped problem-solving and computation skills. The Baddeley model of working memory posits a multicomponent system, including a domain-general central executive and two domain-specific subsystems—phonological short-term memory and visuospatial short-term memory. Extant literature indicates a strong link between neurocognitive deficits in working/short-term memory and math skills; however, the extent to which each component of working/short-term memory may account for this relation is unclear. Method: The present study was the first to use bifactor (S·I-1) modeling to examine relations between each working/short-term memory subcomponent (i.e., central executive, phonological short-term memory, and visuospatial short-term memory), ADHD symptoms, and math skills in a clinically evaluated sample of 186 children ages 8–13 (Myears = 10.40, SD = 1.49; 62 girls; 69% White/non-Hispanic). Results: Structural equation modeling indicated that all three working/short-term memory components exert a significant and approximately equal effect on latent math skills (β= .29–.50, all p < .05) and together explain 56% of the variance in children’s math achievement (R2 = .56). Exploratory analyses indicated that teacher-reported ADHD inattentive symptoms provided a small but significant contribution to predicting latent math skills (ΔR2 = .07) and accounted for 24% of the central executive/math association. Conclusions: These findings suggest that math difficulties in children with ADHD and clinically evaluated children without ADHD are associated, in large part, with their neurocognitive vulnerabilities in working/short-term memory and, to a lesser extent, overt ADHD symptoms.
Key Points
Question: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with working memory deficits and difficulties with math, but which component(s) of working memory contribute to this relation? Findings: All three components of working memory predicted math performance significantly and approximately equally, and explained over half of the variance in children’s math achievement even when controlling for age, sex, socioeconomic status, and ADHD symptoms. Importance: Math skills appear to be approximately equally influenced by central executive working memory and both shortterm memory subsystems to the same extent for children with ADHD as they are for children without ADHD, thus informing potential targets for cognitive and academic intervention. Next Steps: Experimental and/or longitudinal work is needed to evaluate the potential causal relations between working/short-term memory and math performance in children with and without ADHD.
Keywords: attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, working memory, short-term memory, math
 
achievement
This article was published Online First November 2, 2023.
	Michael J. Kofler	https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8604-3647
This work was supported in part by the National Institute of Mental Health under Grant R01 MH115048 (principal investigator: Michael J. Kofler). The sponsor had no role in design and conduct of the study; collection, management, analysis, and interpretation of the data; or preparation, review, or approval of the article.
The principal investigator (Michael J. Kofler) holds a patent for neurocognitive interventions that target central executive working memory and inhibitory control. These interventions were not usedin the present study. Michael J. Kofler discloses travel reimbursement from the American Professional Society for ADHD and Related Disorders and consulting paymentsfrom Sky Therapeuticsand Boys TownNationalResearch Hospital in the past 2 years (no prior disclosures). None of the other investigators have potential conflicts to report.
1
Fatou Gaye played a lead role in conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis, writing–original draft, and writing–review and editing. Nicole B. Groves played a supporting role in conceptualization, data curation, and writing–review and editing. Elizabeth S. M. Chan played a supporting role in conceptualization and writing–review and editing. Alissa M. Cole played a supporting role in conceptualization and writing–review and editing. Emma M. Jaisle played a supporting role in conceptualization, data curation, and writing–review and editing. Elia F. Soto played a supporting role in conceptualization, formal analysis, and writing–review and editing. Michael J. Kofler played a lead role in funding acquisition and a supporting role in conceptualization, formal analysis, writing–original draft, and writing– review and editing.
Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to Michael J. Kofler, Department of Psychology, Florida State University, 1107 West Call Street, Tallahassee, FL 32306-4301, United States. Email: kofler@psy.fsu.edu
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a chronic neurodevelopmental disorder that affects approximately 5% of school-aged children (Polanczyk et al., 2014) and is characterized by pervasive symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, and/or impulsivity (American Psychiatric Association [APA], 2013). Children with ADHD frequently demonstrate deficits in working memory (e.g., Kofler et al., 2018) and in multiple domains of math skills (e.g., DuPaul et al., 2013). Experimental and longitudinal evidence implicates working memory difficulties as a causal mechanism that underlies, in part, ADHD behavioral symptom expression (Karalunas et al., 2017; Kofler et al., 2010; Rapport et al., 2009) and difficulties in other academic areas such as reading (Kofler et al., 2019). However, the extent to which underdeveloped working memory may account for math difficulties in children with ADHD is less clear (Barry et al., 2002; Martinussen et al., 2005; Rogers et al., 2011), and the evidence is mixed in terms of which specific component(s) of working memory may account for this relation (e.g., Friedman et al., 2018; Rennie et al., 2014). To that end, the present study is the first to use a bifactor modeling approach to create latent estimates of each of the three primary components of working memory (central executive, visuospatial short-term memory, phonological short-term memory; defined below) and examine relations with a latent estimate of objectively assessed math skills (computation, problem solving, fluency) in a relatively large and carefully phenotyped sample of children with and without ADHD.
ADHD and Working Memory
Working memory refers to the active, top-down manipulation of information held in short-term memory (Baddeley, 2007), supported by midlateral prefrontal and interconnected networks (Nee et al., 2013; Wager & Smith, 2003). Among the diverse models of working memory (e.g., Engle et al., 1999; Gray et al., 2017; Nee et al., 2013; Wager & Smith, 2003), the influential Baddeley (2007) model has been frequently employed to study working memory deficits in ADHD (e.g., Rapport et al., 2008) and is supported by a strong evidence base in both ADHD/clinical child (e.g., Kofler, Singh, et al., 2020) and developmental/community samples (e.g., Alloway et al., 2006; Fassbender & Schweitzer, 2006; Smith et al., 1996). In this model, working memory is viewed as a multicomponent system comprised of a domain-general central executive and two domainspecific subsystems—phonological short-term memory and visuospatial short-term memory. The central executive is the “working” component of working memory and is responsible for the continuous updating, dual processing, and serial/temporal ordering of information held in the short-term memory subsystems (Fosco et al., 2020). Phonological short-term memory is responsible for the temporary storage and maintenance of language-based verbal and auditory information, whereas visuospatial short-term memory is responsible for the temporary storage and maintenance of nonverbal visual and spatial information. The central executive, phonological short-term memory, and visuospatial short-term memory subsystems are functionally independent and anatomically distinct (e.g., Alloway et al., 2006; Fassbender & Schweitzer, 2006). A third short-term storage component called the episodic buffer was added to the model more recently and is used when information from multiple modalities must be bound and stored as a unitary episode or chunk (e.g., when learning the spatial positions of the phonological letters on a computer keyboard; Baddeley et al., 2010). The episodic buffer component was not investigated in the present study; prior experimental work suggests that the episodic buffer is likely intact in pediatric ADHD (Kofler et al., 2017; cf. Alderson et al., 2022). Working memory deficits are pervasive in ADHD, with metaanalytic reviews indicating large magnitude differences between ADHD and non-ADHD groups (Kasper et al., 2012), and recent studies consistently reporting that between 62% and 85% of children with ADHD exhibit working memory deficits when assessed using well-validated working memory tests derived from the cognitive literature (e.g., Fosco et al., 2020; Karalunas et al., 2017; Kofler et al., 2019; Kofler, Singh, et al., 2020). While central executive deficits are consistently reported and typically large in magnitude (e.g., Fosco et al., 2020; Raiker et al., 2012), deficits in visuospatial short-term memory are frequently reported but tend to be more moderate in magnitude, and many if not most recent studies report no evidence of phonological short-term memory deficits in children with ADHD based on latent/composite indices (see Kofler, Singh, et al., 2020, for review).
Working memory deficits have been associated with the inattentive (Karalunas et al., 2017), hyperactive (Rapport et al., 2009), and impulsive (Raiker et al., 2012) symptoms of ADHD. Emerging evidence suggests that these relations may be carried via the central executive component of working memory, which predicts both parent- and teacher-reported inattentive and hyperactive/impulsive symptoms (Kofler, Singh, et al., 2020). Experimental and longitudinal studies suggest that the link between working memory and ADHD behavior is functional if not causal based on evidence that (a) manipulating working memory demands produces robust changes in ADHD behavioral symptoms (Kofler et al., 2010; Rapport et al., 2009) and (b) working memory deficits persist throughout development for most children with ADHD and covary over time with ADHD symptom severity (Brocki & Bohlin, 2006; Karalunas et al., 2017; Tillman et al., 2011). ADHD-related deficits in working memory have also been implicated in underachievement across multiple academic domains including organization and planning difficulties (Kofler et al., 2018), reduced academic success in the classroom (Kofler et al., 2017), and academic underachievement in reading (Friedman et al., 2017) and writing (Soto et al., 2021)—providing a compelling case for examining links between working memory and math for these children as described below (Re et al., 2016; Rennie et al., 2014).
ADHD and Mathematics Skills
ADHD is associated with marked impairments in math (Biederman et al., 1996; LeFever et al., 2002; Loe & Feldman, 2007). An estimated 5%–30% of children with ADHD meet criteria for math learning disorders (DuPaul et al., 2013). Further, difficulties in math are present even in children with ADHD who do not meet formal criteria for a learning disorder in mathematics (Czamara et al., 2013; Mayes et al., 2000), and these difficulties have been documented across all three ADHD symptom presentation specifiers (inattentive, hyperactive/impulsive, combined; Capano et al., 2008). In terms of specific math skills, children with ADHD demonstrate reduced math problem-solving skills (Re et al., 2016), lower conceptual math understanding (Zentall et al., 1994), and difficulties with math fluency—one’s skill at quickly and efficiently solving simple arithmetic problems within a time limit—when compared to typically developing peers (Capodieci & Martinussen, 2017).
Understanding the mechanisms and processes that underlie these math difficulties is critical given their association with adverse outcomes both concurrently and longitudinally. For example, children with ADHD who exhibit early academic difficulties in subjects such as math are at risk for later academic underachievement (Daley & Birchwood, 2010), greater absenteeism and high school dropout (Barbaresi et al., 2007), and decreased likelihood of completing a bachelor’s degree (Mannuzza et al., 1993). Myriad factors have been linked to math deficits in ADHD, including inattentive symptom severity (e.g., Barry et al., 2002; Rogers et al., 2011) and underlying neurocognitive deficits (e.g., Friedman et al., 2018; Martinussen et al., 2005). With regard to ADHD symptoms, converging evidence suggests that math difficulties may be more strongly associated with inattentive relative to hyperactive/impulsive symptoms (Daley & Birchwood, 2010; Marshall et al., 1997; Tosto et al., 2015; cf. Capano et al., 2008). In terms of neurocognitive explanations, executive functioning in general (Barry et al., 2002) and working memory in particular (Antonini et al., 2016; Friedman et al., 2018) have emerged as particularly important for understanding the math-related difficulties exhibited by children with ADHD as detailed below.
Working Memory and Mathematics
Extant literature suggests that working memory is a significant contributor to math skill performance in areas such as counting, magnitude understanding, simple arithmetic, word problems, and procedural knowledge (Cragg & Gilmore, 2014; De Smedt et al., 2009; Espy et al., 2004; Xenidou-Dervou et al., 2013). Substantial overlap in cortical activation during working memory and math tasks suggests a functional relation between these processes in neurotypical children (Metcalfe et al., 2013; see Menon, 2016, for review) and provides a compelling basis for unpacking the specific components of working memory that drive this association (Raghubar et al., 2010). Within Baddeley’s (2007) multicomponent framework, the central executive and two domain-specific short-term memory subsidiary systems are hypothesized to play differing roles in mathematical calculation and applied problem-solving skills (Swanson & Fung, 2016). While the phonological and visuospatial subsystems are responsible for temporarily storing verbal and visual information related to math problems, the central executive serves as a general processor that updates information in short-term memory (Re et al., 2016), retrieves task-relevant information from long-term memory (Barrouillet & Lépine, 2005), and aids in shifting between mathematical operations (Andersson, 2008). In support of this conceptualization, Simmons et al. (2012) found that central executive functioning explained unique variance in addition to accuracy, while visuospatial short-term memory predicted unique variance in symbolic magnitude comparisons and number writing. Similarly, both concurrent and 5-year longitudinal evidence indicates that visuospatial short-term memory and central executive working memory are strong predictors of math performance, while phonological short-term memory is a lesser contributor to non-wordbased math problems (Bull et al., 2008; David, 2012; Geary, 2011).
ADHD, Working Memory, and Math Skills
Relatively few studies have concurrently examined working memory and math skills in children with ADHD, with the available evidence suggesting working memory–math skill associations similar to those reported from community/developmental samples (Rennie et al., 2014; Rogers et al., 2011). Of the few studies that fractionated the working memory system, one study reported that visuospatial shortterm memory was the strongest predictor of a composite math measure, whereas the central executive was a lesser predictor and phonological short-term memory did not significantly predict math skills (Metcalfe et al., 2013). However, several of the tasks used in that study have been criticized for poor construct validity because they were developed to assess gross neuropsychological functioning rather than subcomponents of working memory specifically (see Snyder et al., 2015; Wells et al., 2018, for reviews). More recently, Friedman et al. (2018) addressed this limitation via an elegant study design that included tasks with strong psychometric and construct validity support for assessing each component of working memory (e.g., Kofler, Singh, et al., 2020; Wells et al., 2018), and composite estimation of each working memory subcomponent. They found that all three working/short-term memory components predicted math computation and applied problem solving, but the extent to which each component uniquely predicted math skills remains unclear from that study. Despite these methodological refinements, questions regarding working memory and math skills in ADHD remain because Friedman et al. (2018) were limited to a relatively small sample of boys, derived estimates using a regressionbased approach that has been criticized recently for potentially underestimating or misestimating the phonological and visuospatial short-term memory subsystems (Gibson et al., 2018), and were unable to examine relations with math fluency or concurrently assess each working memory subcomponent’s unique association with math skills.
The Present Study
Taken together, the evidence base at this time indicates welldocumented associations between ADHD and working memory difficulties (Karalunas et al., 2017; Kofler, Singh, et al., 2020), ADHD and math difficulties (Czamara et al., 2013; DuPaul et al., 2013), and working memory and math skills (Swanson & Fung, 2016; XenidouDervou et al., 2013). However, few clinical child studies have examined the impact of all three working memory subcomponents on math skills using well-validated tests. The present study addressed these limitations via the use of a battery of well-validated working memory tasks and standardized tests of math computation, problem-solving, and fluency skills; recruitment of a relatively large and carefully phenotyped sample of boys and girls with and without ADHD; and a bifactor (S·I-1) modeling approach that provided latent estimates of each working memory subcomponent (Eid et al., 2017, 2018). We hypothesized that (a) the central executive would be a stronger predictor of latent math achievement than either visuospatial short-term memory or phonological short-term memory; and (b) ADHD inattentive symptoms would predict math performance, both uniquely and in part via shared associations with one or more short-term/working memory components.
Method
Transparency and Openness Statement
We report how we determined our sample size, all data exclusions, all manipulations, and all measures in the study. Analyses were conducted using structural equation modeling via the R package lavaan (Rosseel, 2012) as implemented in JASP [Version 0.16.1] (JASP Team, 2021) with full information maximum likelihood estimation of missing data. The software Omega v2 (Watkins, 2017) was used to assess the multidimensionality, construct reliability, and replicability, and explained common variance (ECV) of the working memory bifactor model. The study’s design and analyses were not publicly preregistered.
Participants
The sample comprised 186 children aged 8–13 years (M = 10.40, SD = 1.49; 62 girls) from the Southeastern United States recruited through community resources to a university-based Children’s Learning Clinic (CLC) between 2014 and early 2020. The CLC is a research–practitioner training clinic known to the surrounding community for conducting developmental and clinical child research and providing pro bono comprehensive diagnostic and psychoeducational services. Its client base consists of children with suspected learning, behavioral, or emotional problems, as well as typically developing children (those without a suspected psychological
Table 1
Sample and Demographic Variables
disorder) whose parents agreed to have them participate in developmental/clinical research studies. Florida State University institutional review board approval was obtained/maintained, and all parents and children provided informed consent/assent. Sample ethnicity was mixed with 130 White/non-Hispanic (69.9%), 24 Black (12.9%), 18 multiracial (9.7%), 13 Hispanic (7.0%) children, and one Asian child (0.5%; Table 1). All children/families presented with functional English language proficiency and provided informed consent/asset in English. All study procedures were conducted in English.
Group Assignment
 
	Variable	M	SD	M	SD	Cohen’s d	p	Possible range	Obtained range
Sex (males/females)	84/36	40/26	—	.19, ns	—	—
Ethnicity (A/B/W/H/M)	0/18/88/6/8	1/6/42/7/10	—	.07, ns	—	—
Age	10.23	1.48	10.69	1.48	0.31	.04	8.00–13.92	8.22–13.37
SES	47.87	11.11	49.46	11.51	0.14	.36, ns	8–66	20–66
Maternal education level (P/HS/A/B/G)	2/10/23/50/35	0/3/8/27/28	—	.28, ns	—	—
SFIQ	102.23	15.47	106.44	11.51	0.30	.05, ns	43–157	73–143
Comorbid diagnoses (no/yes)	46/74
(35 ANX,
8 ASD, 4 DEP,
14 ODD)	25/41
(19 ANX,
13 ASD, 7 DEP,
0 ODD)	—	.95, ns	—	—
		ADHD symptoms				
ADHD-RS-4/5 attention problems (raw scores)
	Parent	19.67	5.33	15.02	7.93	−0.73	<.001	0–27	0–27
	Teacher	17.00	6.26	11.26	7.86	−0.84	<.001	0–27	0–27
ADHD-RS-4/5 hyperactivity/impulsivity (raw scores)
	Parent	14.94	7.26	9.30	6.52	−0.80	<.001	0–27	0–27
Teacher	12.02		8.61	6.26	7.08	−0.71	<.001	0–27	0–27
		Working memory task performance			
Phonological set size 3	2.65	0.43	2.84	0.25	0.49	.002	0.00–3.00	1.24–3.00
Phonological set size 4	3.28	0.67	3.63	0.35	0.62	<.001	0.00–4.00	1.33–4.00
Phonological set size 5	3.72	0.89	4.30	0.62	0.72	<.001	0.00–5.00	0.99–5.00
Phonological set size 6	3.27	1.20	3.98	1.22	0.59	<.001	0.00–6.00	0.33–6.00
Visuospatial set size 3	1.96	0.66	2.44	0.45	0.81	<.001	0.00–3.00	0.17–3.00
Visuospatial set size 4	2.33	0.92	3.30	0.63	1.17	<.001	0.00–4.00	0.17–4.00
Visuospatial set size 5	2.46	1.08	3.38	0.88	0.91	<.001	0.00–5.00	0.33–5.00
Visuospatial set size 6	2.23	1.08	3.31	1.128	0.99	<.001	0.00–6.00	0.33–5.67
			Math skills				
Math concepts and applications	96.51	15.90	105.83	13.65	0.62	<.001	40–160	65–136
Math computation	94.82	14.32	102.65	13.76	0.56	<.001	40–160	63–142
Math fluency	91.53	11.79	100.70	12.53	0.76	<.001	40–160	63–127
Note.	Working memory task performance is measured as stimuli correct per trial. Math skills reflect standard scores (age norms) on the Kaufman Test of
Educational Achievement–Third Edition (KTEA-3). ADHD = attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; ethnicity (A = Asian, B = Black/African American, H = Hispanic/Latino, M = multiracial, W = White/non-Hispanic); Maternal education level (A = at least 1 year of college/associates degree or specialized training, B = bachelor’s/4-year college degree, G = graduate school degree, HS = high school diploma or equivalent, P = partial high school); SFIQ = Short Form Intelligence Scale; SES = Hollingshead socioeconomic status; ADHD-RS-4/5 = ADHD Rating Scale. Comorbidity counts do not sum to total comorbid cases due to cases with multiple comorbidities (ANX = anxiety, ASD = autism spectrum disorder, DEP = depressive disorders, ODD = oppositional-defiant disorder). ns = nonsignificant.
All children and caregivers completed a detailed, semistructured clinical interview using the Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Aged Children (K-SADS; Kaufman et al., 1997). The K-SADS (2013 Update) allows differential diagnosis according to symptom onset, course, duration, quantity, severity, and impairment in children and adolescents based on 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder, fifth edition criteria (APA, 2013) and was supplemented with age- and sexnormed parent and teacher ratings from the Behavior Assessment System for Children (BASC-2/3; Reynolds & Kamphaus, 2004) and ADHD Rating Scale (ADHD-RS-4/5; DuPaul et al., 2016).
A psychoeducational report was provided to parents; participating children selected a small toy (<$5) from a prize box.
One hundred and twenty children (36 girls) met all of the following criteria and were diagnosed with ADHD based on the comprehensive psychoeducational evaluation: (a) Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder, fifth edition diagnosis of ADHD combined (78), inattentive (36), or hyperactive/impulsive (6) presentations by the CLC’s directing clinical psychologist and multidisciplinary team based on K-SADS and differential diagnosis considering all available clinical information indicating onset, course, duration, and severity of ADHD symptoms consistent with the ADHD neurodevelopmental syndrome; (b) borderline/clinical elevations on at least one parent and one teacher ADHD subscale (i.e., >90th percentile); and (c) current impairment based on parent report. Children with any current ADHD presentation specifiers were eligible given the instability of ADHD presentations (Lahey et al., 2005; Valo & Tannock, 2010; Willcutt et al., 2012).
Our standard assessment battery also included norm-referenced child internalizing disorder screeners, and additional standardized measures were administered clinically as needed to inform differential diagnosis and accurate assessment of comorbidities (e.g., child clinical interviews, additional testing). Several children with ADHD also met the criteria for common comorbidities based on this comprehensive psychoeducational evaluation, including anxiety disorders (58%), oppositional-defiant disorder (21%), autism spectrum disorders (ASDs; 14%), and depressive disorders (7%). To improve generalizability, given that comorbidity is the norm rather than the exception for children with ADHD (Wilens et al., 2002), these children were retained in the sample. In addition, 20 children with ADHD screened positive for specific learning disorders in math (n = 12) and/or reading (n = 8). Positive screens for learning disorders were defined based on scores ≥1.5 SD below age norms on one or more Kaufman Test of Educational Achievement–Third Edition (KTEA-3) academic skills battery reading and math subtests, as specified in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder, fifth edition (APA, 2013). Given the epidemiological evidence for high comorbidity between ADHD and math disability (Capano et al., 2008; DuPaul et al., 2013; Zentall, 2007), and because positive screens in the present study were defined based on scores on our primary outcome variables, these children were retained to provide a broader range of math scores. Thirty-four (28.3%) of the 120 children with ADHD were prescribed psychostimulant medication. Children prescribed psychostimulant medication received their usual dose on the psychoeducational testing day (i.e., when the math achievement tests were administered). However, medication was withheld for ≥24 hr prior to research testing sessions (i.e., when the working memory tasks were administered). Sensitivity analyses indicated that the pattern of results below was unchanged when ADHD medication status was added as a covariate. Additionally, 66 children (26 girls) completed the same comprehensive psychoeducational assessment and did not meet the criteria for ADHD. To control for comorbid diagnoses in the ADHD group, participants in this group included both neurotypical children (38.5%) and children with anxiety disorders (49%), ASDs (37%), and depressive disorders (14%). Neurotypical children had normal developmental histories and nonclinical parent/teacher ratings, were recruited through community resources, and completed the same evaluation as clinically referred children. Four non-ADHD children screened positive for specific learning disorders in math (n = 2) and/or reading (n = 2) based on the criteria described above. None of the children presented with gross neurological, sensory, or motor impairments that would preclude valid test administration, history of seizure disorder, intellectual disability, psychosis, or nonstimulant medication that could not be withheld for testing.
Procedure
Working memory testing occurred as part of a larger battery that involved one to two sessions of approximately 3 hr each. All tasks were counterbalanced across sessions to minimize order effects. Children received brief breaks after each task and preset longer breaks every two to three tasks to minimize fatigue. Performance was monitored by an examiner at all times, who was seated just outside of the testing room (out of the child’s view) to provide a structured setting while minimizing performance improvements associated with demand characteristics. Math skills were evaluated during a separate 3-hr psychoeducational testing session administered according to standard clinical practice protocols. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, testing procedures were modified for the final eight participants according to COVID-19 safety protocols (e.g., face masks, increased physical distancing during testing, increased cleaning/sanitation procedures). Sensitivity analyses indicated that the pattern and interpretation of results reported below were unchanged with these eight cases excluded.
Measures Working Memory
The Rapport computerized working memory tasks were developed to assess working memory based on the Baddeley (2007) model (Rapport et al., 2008). These tasks correctly classify children with versus without ADHD at similar rates as parent and teacher ADHD rating scales (Tarle et al., 2017) and predict ADHD-related impairments in objectively measured activity level (Rapport et al., 2009), attentive behavior (Kofler et al., 2010), impulsivity (Raiker et al., 2012), delay aversion (Patros et al., 2015), inhibitory control (Alderson et al., 2010), reading comprehension (Friedman et al., 2017), and academic, peer, and family dysfunction (Kofler et al., 2011, 2017). Evidence for reliability and validity includes high internal consistency (ɑ= .82−.97; Kofler et al., 2018), 1–3 week test–retest reliability (.76−.90; Sarver et al., 2015), and expected magnitude relations with criterion working memory complex span (r = .69) and updating tasks (r = .61; Wells et al., 2018). Six trials per set size were administered in randomized/ unpredictable order (3–6 stimuli/trial; 1 stimuli/second) as recommended (Kofler et al., 2017). Five practice trials were administered before each task (80% correct required). Higher scores indicate better performance at each set size for both tasks.
Phonological Working Memory Task. Children were presented with a series of jumbled numbers and one letter that was never presented first or last to minimize primacy/recency effects. The letter was counterbalanced to appear equally in each of the other positions. Children were instructed to recall the numbers from least to greatest and the letter last (e.g., 4H62 recalled as 246H).
Visuospatial Working Memory Task. Children were shown nine squares arranged in three offset vertical columns on a computer monitor. A series of 2.5 cm dots (3, 4, 5, or 6) were presented sequentially (1 stimuli/second). No two dots appeared in the same square on a given trial. All dots were black except one red dot that was never presented first or last to minimize primacy/recency effects. Using a modified keyboard, children were instructed to recall the serial position of the black dots and put the red dot last.
Bifactor (S·I-1) Model of Working Memory. Bifactor (S·I-1) modeling was selected a priori given our goal of identifying processpure, latent estimates of domain-general central executive working memory and the domain-specific phonological and visuospatial shortterm memory subsystems. This decision was informed by the Baddeley (2007) multicomponent framework, which specifies a single central executive system that operates on the structurally and functionally independent phonological and visuospatial short-term storage buffers. In this model, shared variance across working memory tests with different stimulus modalities (i.e., visuospatial vs. phonological) is attributed to domain-general working memory (i.e., the “central executive”), whereas variance unique to each task is attributable to the phonological and visuospatial short-term memory processes, respectively (see Rapport et al., 2008, for review). Support for this model includes replicated evidence that the phonological and visuospatial storage systems are functionally and anatomically distinct, as well as replicated evidence supporting a single, domain-general central executive rather than separate central executive components for processing phonological and visuospatial information (Alloway et al., 2006; Baddeley, 2007; Smith et al., 1996).
As recommended by Eid et al. (2018) and following Kofler, Singh, et al. (2020), the present study used a bifactor (S·I-1) structure, such that all 8 indicators (phonological and visuospatial set sizes 3, 4, 5, and 6) loaded onto the general factor (i.e., central executive) and a subset of indicators also loaded onto each specific short-term memory factor (i.e., visuospatial or phonological). As described by Eid et al. (2018), to properly fit the bifactor model, one or more items must load onto the general factor but not onto any specific factor. These items are called “reference facets” and define the meaning of the general factor (in this case, “central executive”). To ensure that the general factor reflected domain-general central executive working memory, we selected two reference facets: one phonological and one visuospatial (Heinrich et al., 2020). We chose set size 3 from each task given Baddeley’s (2007) conceptualization that central executive demands remain relatively constant despite increasing set size; increasing set size is viewed as primarily a manipulation of short-term memory demands. To allow for maximal discrimination between constructs in our bifactor (S·I-1) model, the general factor is modeled as uncorrelated with each specific factor (Eid et al., 2018), and the specific factors are also modeled as uncorrelated with each other. This representation is based on the underlying assumption that an individual’s score on an item reflects at least two distinct sources of variance (i.e., the general factor and the specific factor).
Mathematical Skills Kaufman Test of Educational Achievement (KTEA-3)
The KTEA-3 (Kaufman & Kaufman, 2014) was used to assess children’s mathematical skills (α = .95−.98; 1–2-week test–retest = .87−.95). As described below, a latent math variable was created using the three mathematical subtests of the KTEA-3: Math Concepts & Applications, Math Computation, and Math Fluency. Math Concepts & Applications encompasses children’s skill at applying mathematical calculation principles to real-life situations. Application skills are measured in areas such as number concepts, operation concepts, time, money, measurement, geometry, fractions, decimals, data investigation, and higher math concepts. Math Computation refers to children’s skill at completing math calculations and is assessed across multiple skill domains including counting, number identification, arithmetic operations, fractions, decimals, square roots, exponents, and algebra. Math Fluency refers to children’s skill at quickly solving simple arithmetic problems and is measured by the accuracy of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division problems completed within 1 min. Standard scores (age norms) for each mathematical skill were obtained by comparison to the nationally representative standardization sample (N = 2,050). Higher scores indicate greater achievement.
ADHD Symptoms
ADHD symptom frequency and severity were assessed using the ADHD Rating Scale for DSM-IV/5 (ADHD-RS-4/5; DuPaul et al., 2016). The ADHD-RS-4/5 includes 18 items across two symptom subscales: inattention (nine items) and hyperactivity/impulsivity (nine items). Psychometric support for this measure includes high internal consistency (ɑ= 0.94) and test–retest reliability (r = 0.79– 0.85; DuPaul et al., 2016). Higher scores indicate higher quantity and severity of ADHD symptoms.
Intellectual Functioning and Socioeconomic Status
Intellectual functioning (IQ) was estimated using the 4-subtest Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children–Fifth Edition Short-Form IQ (Vocabulary, Similarities, Matrix Reasoning, Figure Weights), which has a validity coefficient of r = .90 and correlates rss = .96 with the full, 7-subtest Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children–Fifth Edition Full-Scale Intelligence Quotient (Sattler et al., 2016). Socioeconomic status (SES) was estimated using the Hollingshead scoring based on caregiver(s)’ occupation and education (Cirino et al., 2002).
Data Analysis Overview
Our primary analyses are organized into three analytic tiers. Age, sex, and SES were included as covariates in all tiers/models. In the first tier, we built the working memory measurement model that included a general central executive factor (all eight task performance indicators loading onto a single factor), as well as phonological and visuospatial short-term memory-specific factors. This measurement model was compared to a one-factor working memory model (all eight task performance variables loading onto a single factor with no short-term memory-specific factors) to evaluate model fit. A latent math variable based on the three KTEA-3 subtests (Math Concepts & Applications, Math Computation, and Math Fluency) was also created/tested in Tier 1.
In Tier 2, we created the primary structural model to test the extent to which each short-term/working memory component predicted math performance. Finally, in Tier 3, we added continuous estimates of children’s attention problems and hyperactivity/impulsivity as intermediate (i.e., conditional) effects between each short-term/ working memory component and each math outcome. Conditional effects modeling was used in Tier 3 because it allowed shared variance among predictors to be parsed according to theory and previous research. Pathway directionality was specified a priori based on the available literature reviewed above. Notably, the crosssectional design precludes testing competing models regarding directional effects of working memory and math skills or math skills and ADHD symptoms (i.e., reversing arrows does not distinguish plausible models; Thoemmes, 2015). Inattention and hyperactivity/ impulsivity were included separately based on evidence that they differentially predict relations between working memory and other ADHD-related impairments (e.g., Bunford et al., 2015; Kofler et al., 2018). Bias-corrected bootstrapping with 5,000 resamples was used as recommended (e.g., Preacher et al., 2007). For all pathways, effects are considered statistically significant if their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) do not contain zero. Effect ratios (ER) for significant indirect effects indicate the proportion of the total effect (c pathway) that is conveyed via the indirect pathway (ab; i.e., ER = ab/c).
For all confirmatory models, absolute and relative fit were tested. Adequate model fit is indicated by comparative fit index and Tucker– Lewis index (TLI) ≥ .90, and root-mean-square error of approximation (RMSEA) ≤ .10. The χ2 difference test was used to evaluate nested model fit; lower chi-square values indicate the preferred model (Satorra & Bentler, 2010). For the working memory bifactor (S·I-1) measurement model, omega total (ω), omega subscale (ωs), ECV, and the percentage of uncontaminated correlations (PUC) were also computed. Omega total (ω) and omega subscale (ωs) index the reliability of the general factor (working memory) and specific factors (phonological and visuospatial short-term memory) by providing estimates of the proportion of variance attributable to sources of common and specific variance, respectively; values > .70 are preferred (Rodriguez et al., 2016a). ECV indicates the proportion of reliable variance explained by each factor. The PUC is used to assess potential bias from forcing unidimensional data into a multidimensional (bifactor) model. When general factor ECV > .70 and PUC > .70, bias is considered low and the instrument can be interpreted as primarily unidimensional (i.e., the increased complexity of the bifactor structure is likely not warranted; Rodriguez et al., 2016b). Construct replicability (H) values > .80 suggest a well-defined latent variable that is more likely to be stable across studies (Watkins, 2017).
All items showed the expected range of scores and were screened for normality (all skewness < |2|; all kurtosis < |3|). δ scaling with maximum likelihood estimation with robust standard errors was used to handle any nonnormality (Kline, 2016). Standardized residuals were inspected for magnitude (all positive and ≤1, indicating no evidence of localized ill fit). Directionality of parameter estimates was inspected.
Power Analysis
A series of Monte Carlo simulations were run using Mplus7 (Muthén & Muthén, 2012) to estimate the power of our proposed bifactor models for detecting significant factor loadings of the expected magnitude, given a sample size of 186, power (1 −β) ≥ .80, α= .05, and 10,000 simulations per model run. This process compiled the percentage of model runs that resulted in statistically significant estimates of model parameters. Standardized factor loadings and expected residual variances for observed variables were imputed iteratively to delineate the proposed bifactor model. For the Tier 1 analyses, results indicated that our measurement model is powered to detect standardized factor loadings ≥.52, which falls well below the loadings for these tasks in previous factor analytic studies (e.g., Kofler et al., 2018). For the Tier 2 analyses, our structural model is powered to detect associations of r ≥ .35 between each short-term/working memory component and each math outcome. Finally, based on the Rweb quantpsy utility, for α= .05 and 29 degrees of freedom for our most complex Tier 3 model, our N = 186 is powered to differentiate between an adequate (RMSEA = .05) and poor fitting model (RMSEA = .10) at power (1 −β) = .92. Thus, the study is sufficiently powered to address our primary aims (Preacher & Coffman, 2006).
Results
Preliminary Analysis and Group Differences
All independent and dependent variables were screened for univariate outliers, defined by values above or below 3 SD of the within-group mean. This process identified 0.28% (ADHD group) and 0.30% (non-ADHD group) of data points, which were corrected to the most extreme value of 3 SD above or below the within-group mean. Missing data rates were low (0.14%) and were addressed using full information maximum likelihood estimation. Task data from subsets of the current battery have been reported for subsets of the current sample to examine conceptually unrelated hypotheses (please see Groves et al., 2022). Performance data on the study’s primary outcome (KTEA math scores) have not been reported for any children in the current sample. All parent- and teacher-rated ADHD scales were higher for children with ADHD relative to children without ADHD as expected (Table 1). In addition, children with ADHD demonstrated impairments on all eight phonological and visuospatial working memory performance variables (d = 0.49–1.17; all p < .01) and all three math tests (d = 0.56–0.76; all p < .001) relative to children without ADHD. There was no significant evidence to indicate differences in SES (p = .36) or IQ (p = .05), whereas children with ADHD were slightly younger than children without ADHD (Mage = 10.23 vs. 10.69, p = .04). As noted above, age, sex, and SES were controlled in all analyses. IQ was not included as a covariate based on compelling statistical, methodological, and conceptual rationale against covarying IQ when investigating cognitive processes in ADHD (Dennis et al., 2009), and because IQ appears to reflect, in part, an outcome rather than a cause of working memory abilities (e.g., Engle et al., 1999). In other words, covarying IQ would preclude conclusions regarding working memory by fundamentally changing our primary predictor variables and removing significant variance associated with our predictors and outcomes of interest (Dennis et al., 2009).
Tier 1: Measurement Models Working/Short-Term Memory Abilities
First, we created a one-factor working memory measurement model in which all eight indicators loaded significantly onto the domain-general working memory factor (β= .49–.77, all p < .001).
Table 2
Model Fit Statistics
Model	CFI	TLI	RMSEA (90% CI)	SRMR	χ (df)	Δχ2(df)	ω	ωs	ECV	PUC	H
Tier 1: Measurement models Working memory single factor	0.84	0.79	0.12 [.10, .14]	0.07	143.67 (41) p < .001	—	—	—	—	—	—
Short-term/working memory bifactor (S·I-1)	0.95	0.90	0.08 [.05, .11]	0.05	64.38 (29) p < .001	79.29 (12)
p < .001	.88	.77 (PH)
.83 (VS)	.68 (CE)
.16 (PH)
.16 (VS)	.57	.83 (CE)
.48 (PH)
.48 (VS)
Math latent variable	1.00	1.00	0.02 [0, .12]	0.02	4.37 (4)
p = .36	—	—	—	—	—	—
Tier 2: Math prediction model	0.96	0.93	0.06 [.04, .08]	0.05	98.35 (56) p < .001	—	—	—	—	—	—
Tier 3: Intermediate effects Inattentive symptoms	0.96	0.94	0.06 [.04, .08]	0.04	102.33 (63) p = .001	—	—	—	—	—	—
Hyperactive-impulsive symptoms	0.95	0.92	0.06 [.04, .08]	0.04	111.21 (63) p < .001	—	—	—	—	—	—
Note. CFI = comparative fit index; TLI = Tucker–Lewis index; CI = confidence interval; RMSEA = root-mean-square error of approximation; SRMR = standardized root-mean-square residual; ω = omega total (general working memory factor); ωs = omega subscale (specific short-term memory factors); ECV = explained common variance; PUC = percent of uncontaminated correlations; H = construct replicability. Omega (ω) and all columns to its right are only computed for bifactor models; PH = phonological short-term memory; CE = central executive working memory; VS = visuospatial short-term
memory.
However, this model did not show adequate fit (Table 2). Next, we built the working/short-term memory bifactor (S·I-1) model by adding the visuospatial and phonological short-term memoryspecific factors to the one-factor measurement model. As shown in Table 2, this model included the domain-general central executive (general factor) and the domain-specific phonological short-term memory and visuospatial short-term memory factors (specific factors). This model showed excellent fit, all indicators loaded significantly onto their hypothesized factors (all p < .001), and model fit was significantly improved relative to the one-factor working memory measurement model, Δχ2(12) = 79.29, p < .001. The proportion of uncontaminated correlations and ECV were both <.70, supporting the multidimensionality of the data (PUC = .57, ECV = .68; Rodriguez et al., 2016b; Watkins, 2017). Reliability was high for the general factor (ω= .88) and both specific factors (ωs = .77–.83). Thus, the working/short-term memory bifactor (S·I-1) model was retained for Tiers 2 and 3.
Math Skills
In Tier 1, we also used scores from the K-TEA-3 math subtests (math concepts and applications, math computation, and math fluency) to create the latent math performance factor. All three subtests loaded significantly onto the latent math factor (β= .65–.95, all p < .001), and the model demonstrated adequate fit (Table 2).
Tier 2: Primary Analyses—Working Memory and ShortTerm Memory as Predictors of Math Achievement
Next, we created a structural model with the three short-term/ working memory components predicting math skills.2 The model showed excellent fit as shown in Table 2. Results indicated that central executive working memory (β= .50, p < .001), phonological short-term memory (β= .45, p < .001), and visuospatial short-term memory (β = .29, p = .03) were all significant predictors of math performance (Figure 1). Together, the model explained 56% of the variance in children’s math skills (R2 = .56).
Next, we tested a model in which the three regression pathways (i.e., central executive, phonological short-term memory, and visuospatial short-term memory predicting math skills) were constrained to be equal and conducted a chi-square difference test to compare this model to the primary model above (where the three pathways were allowed to be freely estimated). Interestingly, there was no significant difference in model fit between these two models, Δχ2(2) = 1.93, p = .38, suggesting that there is no significant difference in the strength of relations between each working/short-term memory component and math performance. In other words, all three working/short-term memory components contributed significantly and approximately equally to the prediction of children’s math skills.
Tier 3: Exploratory Analyses—ADHD Symptoms as Intermediate Effects Between Short-Term/Working Memory and Math Achievement
Figure 1
Bifactor (S·I-1) Model of Central Executive Working Memory (General Factor) and Short-Term Memory (Phonological and Visuospatial Specific Factors) Predicting Math Performance
 
Note. Latent math performance variable estimated using the three Kaufman Test of Educational Achievement–Third Edition (KTEA-3) math subtest scores (Math Computation, Math Concepts & Application, and Math Fluency). Standardized loadings are shown (all p < .001). Age, sex, and SES are controlled for but not depicted for clarity. SES = socioeconomic status.
Finally, we added teacher-rated inattentive and hyperactive/ impulsive symptoms as intermediate effects between each of the three working/short-term memory components and math performance to estimate the extent to which the relations detected are conveyed via working memory’s role in regulating behavior. Reporting is truncated for readability. Adding ADHD symptoms to the model resulted in a small but significant increase (p < .001)  in variance accounted (R2 = .63 vs. .56), with inattentive (β=−.29, 95% CI excludes 0.0) but not hyperactive/impulsive symptoms (95% CI includes 0.0) uniquely predicting math difficulties. Better developed central executive working memory predicted lower inattentive (β = −.40, 95% CI excludes 0.0) and hyperactive/impulsive symptom severity (β=−.24, 95% CI excludes 0.0). In contrast, neither phonological short-term memory nor visuospatial short-term memory were associated with ADHD symptom frequency/severity (95% CIs include 0.0). Finally, there was a significant indirect effect of the central executive on math performance via the inattentive symptom pathway (ab pathway: β= .12, 95% CI excludes 0.0, ER = .24), suggesting that 24% of working memory’s association with math skills is shared with inattentive symptoms. In contrast, there was no evidence of indirect effects of phonological or visuospatial short-term memory on math performance via the inattentive or hyperactive/impulsive pathways (ab pathway: 95% CIs include 0.0).
Tier 4: Sensitivity Analyses
Taken together, the primary analyses above suggest that all three working memory subcomponents contribute uniquely and approximately equally to the prediction of children’s math achievement, with the central executive/math association shared in part with the central executive’s role in regulating attention. To probe the robustness of these results, we conducted a series of sensitivity analyses to determine the extent to which results may have been impacted by our a priori decisions to (a) create a latent math performance variable; (b) include children with common comorbidities beyond ADHD in the sample; (c) model ADHD symptoms based on teacher report; and (d) maximize variability in predictor and outcome scores by including children with and without ADHD in the same model. First, we repeated the Tier 2 analyses with the working/short-term memory components predicting each math KTEA-3 subtest (math concepts and application, math computation, and math fluency) individually rather than predicting a latent math variable. The pattern, significance, and interpretation of results were highly consistent with the primary Tier 2 results, with the exception that visuospatial short-term memory was not a significant predictor of math computation (p = .07) despite predicting math concepts/applications and fluency (both p < .05). Second, we repeated the primary Tier 2 model two more times: once with overall comorbidity (N/Y) included as a covariate and once with separate covariates for anxiety (N/Y) and ASD (N/Y; depression and oppositional-defiant disorder [ODD] were not included due to low cell counts as shown in Table 1). Results indicated that the pattern, significance, and interpretation were unchanged in both cases, and none of the covariates significantly predicted math or any of the working memory/short-term memory components (all p > .06).
Next, we repeated the Tier 3 intermediate effects analyses using parent- instead of teacher-rated ADHD symptoms (parent and teacher reports correlated r = .41 for both inattentive and hyperactive/impulsive symptoms in the current sample). Once again, the pattern, significance, and interpretation of results were highly consistent with the primary results with three minor exceptions: (a) the central executive did not significantly predict parent-rated hyperactive/impulsive symptoms (95% CI includes 0.0) despite predicting inattentive symptoms (95% CI excludes 0.0); (b) parent-rated inattentive symptoms did not significantly predict children’s math skills (95% CI includes 0.0); and (c) the indirect effect of central executive working memory on math performance via the inattentive symptom pathway was no longer significant (95% CI includes 0.0). Importantly, however, the primary finding that all three working/short-term memory components significantly predicted math skills was unchanged when parent ratings were substituted for teacher ratings (all 95% CIs exclude 0.0). Finally, we probed the extent to which the findings inform relations between working/short-term memory and math skills for children with ADHD specifically. This involved repeating the primary Tier 2 model one more time, this time including only children diagnosed with ADHD (n = 120). The results were highly consistent with the primary results reported above, including significant effects of central executive (β = .49, p = .01), phonological short-term memory (β= .43, p = .02), and visuospatial short-term memory (β= .32, p = .02) on math skills, with no significant difference between the constrained/unconstrained models, Δχ2(2) = 2.67, p = .26, indicating that all three components significantly and similarly predicted math skills for children with ADHD (R2 = .54). 
Discussion
The present study was the first to apply the bifactor (S·I-1) modeling technique to examine the relations among the three components of the working memory system (central executive, phonological short-term memory, and visuospatial short-term memory), ADHD symptoms, and math skills. Additional strengths of the study include the use of a multitrait, multimethod, and multitask design as well as the recruitment of a relatively large, clinically evaluated, and carefully phenotyped sample. Overall, the current findings indicated that all three working/short-term memory components are implicated to similar degrees, and collectively account for 56% of the variance in children’s math skills. In addition, we found that the central executive/ math relation was conveyed in part via their shared association with ADHD inattentive symptoms, whereas neither short-term memory subsystem was associated with ADHD symptoms.
Of primary interest in the present study was the extent to which specific components of the working/short-term memory system were associated with children’s math performance. Understanding the nature of these relations is crucial given the high rates of cooccurring working memory and math deficits in children with and without ADHD (Maehler & Schuchardt, 2016) and has the potential to inform targets for intervention (Peng et al., 2016). Overall, the findings of this study were highly consistent with developmental literature linking children’s working memory abilities and math achievement (Bull et al., 2008; Geary, 2011) and extended these findings by providing evidence that all three working/short-term memory components are important for understanding math skill development in children with ADHD as well as clinically evaluated children without ADHD. In addition, our findings were generally consistent with several studies linking central executive processes with math problem-solving (Geary et al., 2012) and growth in math (Jerman et al., 2012), as well as studies demonstrating unique central executive/math relations above and beyond other predictors such as reading and computational knowledge (Swanson et al., 2008). Although some researchers have posited that the central executive is more important for math problem solving (Lemaire, 1996) than phonological and visuospatial short-term memory (Swanson, 2006), the present study provides evidence that these three short-term/ working memory components are approximately equally important for understanding math skills for children with ADHD and potentially for clinically evaluated children more generally. This finding is consistent with studies that have reported unique relations between all three components and math (Zheng et al., 2011) and extends this evidence base to include children with neurodevelopmental disorders such as ADHD that are associated with increased risk for math difficulties (Friedman et al., 2017).
In terms of short-term memory contributions, the findings from this study add to a mixed literature suggesting differing strengths of associations between phonological short-term memory, visuospatial short-term memory, and math performance (see Friso-Van den Bos et al., 2014, for review). For example, some studies report that visuospatial short-term memory (along with the central executive) contributes to arithmetic knowledge acquisition and math problem solving, highlighting the inherently spatial nature of numerical magnitudes (Dehaene et al., 1993; Mix & Cheng, 2012; Seron et al., 1992) and importance of mental representations of numbers in space (e.g., mental number line representations) for the successful completion of math problems (Geary, 2011; Menon, 2016; Metcalfe et al., 2013). Similarly, our findings were generally consistent with evidence linking phonological short-term memory with the encoding and maintenance of verbal codes that are used during operations such as counting and holding partial solutions during mathematical problem solving (Bull et al., 2008; Imbo & LeFevre, 2010). While some studies have failed to find support for a unique relation between phonological short-term memory and math (Fürst & Hitch, 2000; Gathercole & Pickering, 2000; Simmons et al., 2012), our findings are consistent with others who suggest that both working memory and short-term memory uniquely predict children’s math performance (Swanson & Kim, 2007).
The present study found that all three short-term/working memory subcomponents contributed significantly to predicting children’s math performance. This pattern was generally consistent with emerging evidence that replicated across two clinical trials suggesting that neurocognitive training protocols specifically targeting central executive working memory abilities appear to demonstrate efficacy for improving math problem-solving skills in children with ADHD (Singh et al., 2022). In contrast, at first glance, our findings appear inconsistent with meta-analytic evidence that short-term memory training protocols generally do not produce far-transfer improvements in children’s math performance (Aksayli et al., 2019; Rapport et al., 2013). One potential explanation for this incongruence may be that extant short-term memory training interventions have been unable to produce large enough changes in short-term memory to produce detectable changes in math skills.
For instance, short-term memory training produces medium magnitude improvements in short-term memory for children with ADHD based on meta-analysis (d= 0.63; Rapport et al., 2013). Given the estimated relations between visuospatial/phonological short-term memory and math found in the present study (β= .29−.45), we might expect that a d = 0.63 improvement in short-term memory could correspond with, at best, small improvements of d = 0.18–0.28 in math that would require a relatively large sample size to detect (see Rapport et al., 2013, for discussion of how maximum expected fartransfer treatment effects can be estimated by multiplying the magnitude of improvement in the treatment target by the relation between the treatment target and outcome). In contrast, central executive working memory training has been associated with large magnitude improvements in central executive abilities (d = 0.96–1.25 across studies; Kofler et al., 2018; Kofler, Wells, et al., 2020), with corresponding expected maximum far-transfer improvements in math based on the present study’s central executive/math estimate of d = 0.48–0.63 that would be detectable with more modest sample sizes. Of course, this hypothesis is speculative given that the present study did not assess intervention effects but is generally consistent with Treatment × Time interaction estimates of far-transfer improvements in math of d = 0.56–0.76 following central executive training relative to far-transfer math improvements of d = 0.15 following short-term memory training (Rapport et al., 2013; Singh et al., 2022).
Limitations
The present study has several strengths, including a relatively large and clinically evaluated sample of children, and the multimethod, multi-informant, and multitask design. However, the following limitations should be considered when interpreting results. First, there were minor discrepancies between the exploratory models based on whether we used teacher or parent perceptions of children’s ADHD symptoms, which correlated moderately with each other (r = .41) as expected (Antrop et al., 2002; Cho et al., 2011; Papageorgiou et al., 2008). This may reflect true differences in the manifestation of ADHD behavioral symptoms across contexts (i.e., school vs. home) and the impact of these differences on academic performance (Verhulst et al., 1994). Alternatively, this may reflect differences in the precision of teacher and parent-rated ADHD symptoms, consistent with (a) prior evidence that teacher ratings may outperform parent ratings in terms of specificity, sensitivity, and overall classification of ADHD (Tripp et al., 2006); and (b) the current findings that teacher but not parent ADHD ratings were predictive of children’s math skills. Next, this study had a relatively large sample of children with ADHD, which provided a wide range of working/short-term memory abilities given the well-documented heterogeneity in executive function abilities among children with ADHD (e.g., Kofler et al., 2018) that was expected to maximize our likelihood of detecting relations between working/short-term memory and math. In addition, the inclusion of children with clinical disorders other than ADHD in the non-ADHD group was a strength in that it provided more effective control for the presence of these co-occurring conditions in the ADHD group. However, the inclusion of children with and without ADHD may reduce the specificity of findings to either population despite sensitivity analyses suggesting that the results were robust when examining children with ADHD specifically.
Similarly, despite the study’s relatively large sample size and evidence that the ADHD and non-ADHD samples were comparable with regard to race/ethnicity, SES, and maternal education level, the majority of the participants in the study identified as White and relatively high maternal education levels were reported (i.e., majority of mothers reported having a bachelor’s degree or higher). As such, the findings from the study may not generalize to historically excluded racial minority groups as well as children who have mothers with relatively lower levels of education. Next, this study was cross-sectional, which limits conclusions regarding the direction of relations between our constructs (Thoemmes, 2015) despite (a) experimental evidence indicating that working memory exerts a functional if not causal influence on ADHD behavioral expression (Kofler et al., 2010; Rapport et al., 2009) and other academic skills such as reading (Kofler et al., 2019) and (b) longitudinal evidence that working memory and ADHD symptoms exert a significant influence on the development of math skills (Rennie et al., 2014). However, there is some evidence that relations between working memory and math skills may be bidirectional (Fuhs et al., 2014), and it remains unclear if math performance has a bidirectional relation with ADHD behavioral symptoms in the classroom.
Next, a strength of the study was our ability to fractionate the working memory system into its component processes based on the Baddeley (2007) model. Nonetheless, the central executive can likely be further fractionated into multiple subprocesses such as continuous updating, dual processing, serial/temporal reordering (Fosco et al., 2020), internal focus of attention (Oberauer & Hein, 2012), interference control, and interfacing with long-term memory (Baddeley, 2007), with functions that differ somewhat across conceptual models of working memory. Future research is needed to determine the extent to which one or more of these processes is driving the central executive’s association with math despite evidence that it is shared rather than unique subcomponents of the central executive that drive its association with ADHD behavioral symptoms (Fosco et al., 2020). Similarly, future studies may benefit from including additional tasks that require episodic buffer processes to provide a more complete representation of the most recent version of the Baddeley (2017) working memory model, despite recent experimental evidence indicating that the episodic buffer is likely intact in most children with ADHD (Kofler et al., 2017; cf. Alderson et al., 2022). Next, despite the inclusion of practice trials to ensure task comprehension, future research is needed to determine the role of language processes in the association between phonological short-term memory, ADHD, and math (Korrel et al., 2017). Finally, although short-term/working memory abilities explained a substantial proportion of the variance in children’s math skills (56%), a nontrivial proportion of individual differences in children’s math skills remained unexplained (i.e., 44%). To that end, a more complete model of how working memory impacts math achievement would benefit from consideration of additional factors such as history of math intervention, math anxiety, school climate and quality, reading skills, as well as visual attention, cognitive information processing speed, and strategic/conceptual thinking—abilities that themselves appear affected by working memory abilities based on experimental and longitudinal evidence (e.g., Fosco & Hawk, 2017; Kofler et al., 2010; Tourva et al., 2016). Additional experimental and longitudinal studies in children with ADHD are required to further examine these interrelations.
Research and Clinical Implications
Taken together, the current results indicate that central executive working memory, phonological short-term memory, and visuospatial short-term memory are significant and approximately equal contributors to math skills, and collectively explain 56% of individual differences in children’s math performance. Given these relations, assessment of working and short-term memory may be informative when screening children who present with difficulties in math. Current evidence indicates that growth in working memory relates to growth in math outcomes (Fuchs et al., 2005) and vice versa (Raghubar et al., 2010), suggesting that assessment and intervention in either/both area(s) may prove beneficial for promoting growth across domains. In addition, students with working memory difficulties may benefit from different types of math interventions than students with average working memory (Fuchs et al., 2013), suggesting that working memory abilities may serve as a prognostic indicator when developing math intervention plans. While current evidence-based interventions for math often target core skills such as computational fluency (McKevett & Codding, 2021), instructional review articles have called for more vigorous research in the area of effective instructional practices for math (Hodara, 2011), including more evidence on the link between executive function training and academic achievement (Jacob & Parkinson, 2015). Given the relative inefficacy of ADHD behavioral and medication treatments for improving math and other academic outcomes (Conners, 2002; DuPaul & Eckert, 1997; Van der Oord et al., 2008), alternative approaches to targeting math difficulties in children with ADHD are clearly warranted. Looking forward, combining evidence-based math instruction/intervention with central executive and/or short-term memory training may have the potential for additive/augmentative benefits (Chacko et al., 2014), given the large proportion of variance in math skills explained herein and emerging neurocognitive intervention evidence reviewed above (Singh et al., 2022). At present, however, direct instruction in math skills using evidence-based strategies remains the first-line intervention of choice for children with ADHD and math difficulties (Jitendra et al., 2008; Raggi & Chronis, 2006).
References
Aksayli, N. D., Sala, G., & Gobet, F. (2019). The cognitive and academic benefits of Cogmed: A meta-analysis. Educational Research Review, 27, 229–243. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.edurev.2019.04.003
Alderson, R. M., Rapport, M. D., Hudec, K. L., Sarver, D. E., & Kofler, M. J. (2010). Competing core processes in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): Do working memory deficiencies underlie behavioral inhibition deficits? Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 38(4), 497– 507. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10802-010-9387-0
Alderson, R. M., Tarle, S. J., Roberts, D. K., Betancourt, J. L., & Bullard, C. C. (2022). Feature binding and working memory in children with ADHD: Evidence of episodic buffer impairment. Research on Child and Adolescent Psychopathology, 50(4), 463–475. https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10802-021-00868-z
Alloway, T. P., Gathercole, S. E., & Pickering, S. J. (2006). Verbal and visuospatial short-term and working memory in children: Are they separable? Child Development, 77(6), 1698–1716. https://doi.org/10 .1111/j.1467-8624.2006.00968.x
American Psychiatric Association [APA]. (2013). Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM-5).
Andersson, U. (2008). Working memory as a predictor of written arithmetical skills in children: The importance of central executive functions. The British Journal of Educational Psychology, 78(2), 181– 203. https://doi.org/10.1348/000709907X209854
Antonini, T. N., Kingery, K. M., Narad, M. E., Langberg, J. M., Tamm, L., & Epstein, J. N. (2016). Neurocognitive and behavioral predictors of math performance in children with and without ADHD. Journal of Attention Disorders, 20(2), 108–118. https://doi.org/10.1177/1087054713504620
Antrop, I., Roeyers, H., Oosterlaan, J., & Van Oost, P. (2002). Agreement between parent and teacher ratings of disruptive behavior disorders in children with clinically diagnosed ADHD. Journal of Psychopathology and Behavioral Assessment, 24(1), 67–73. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:101 4057325752
Baddeley, A. (2007). Working memory, thought, and action. Oxford University Press. https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:Oso/9780198528012.001.0001
Baddeley, A. (2017). Exploring working memory: Selected works of Alan Baddeley. Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315111261
Baddeley, A., Allen, R. J., & Hitch, G. (2010). Investigating the episodic buffer. Psychologica Belgica, 50(3–4), 223–243. https://doi.org/10.5334/ pb-50-3-4-223
Barbaresi, W. J., Katusic, S. K., Colligan, R. C., Weaver, A. L., & Jacobsen, S. J. (2007). Long-term school outcomes for children with attentiondeficit/hyperactivity disorder: A population-based perspective. Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, 28(4), 265–273. https:// doi.org/10.1097/DBP.0b013e31811ff87d
Barrouillet, P., & Lépine, R. (2005). Working memory and children’s use of retrieval to solve addition problems. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 91(3), 183–204. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp.2005.03.002
Barry, T. D., Lyman, R. D., & Klinger, L. G. (2002). Academic underachievement and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: The negative impact of symptom severity on school performance. Journal of School Psychology, 40(3), 259–283. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-4405(02) 00100-0
Biederman, J., Faraone, S., Milberger, S., Guite, J., Mick, E., Chen, L., Mennin, D., Marrs, A., Ouellette, C., Moore, P., Spencer, T., Norman, D., Wilens, T., Kraus, I., & Perrin, J. (1996). A prospective 4-year follow-up study of attention-deficit hyperactivity and related disorders. Archives of General Psychiatry, 53(5), 437–446. https://doi.org/10.1001/archpsyc .1996.01830050073012
Brocki, K. C., & Bohlin, G. (2006). Developmental change in the relation between executive functions and symptoms of ADHD and co-occurring behaviour problems. Infant and Child Development, 15(1), 19–40. https:// doi.org/10.1002/icd.413
Bull, R., Espy, K. A., & Wiebe, S. A. (2008). Short-term memory, working memory, and executive functioning in preschoolers: Longitudinal predictors of mathematical achievement at age 7 years. Developmental Neuropsychology, 33(3), 205–228. https://doi.org/10.1080/87565640801 982312
Bunford, N., Brandt, N. E., Golden, C., Dykstra, J. B., & Owens, J. S. (2015). ADHD symptoms mediate the association between deficits in executive functioning and social impairment in children. Journal of Abnormal Child
Psychology, 43(1), 133–147. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10802-014-9902-9 Capano, L., Minden, D., Chen, S. X., Schacher, R. J., & Ickowicz, A. (2008). Mathematical learning disorder in school-age children with attentiondeficit hyperactivity disorder. Canadian Journal of Psychiatry, 53(6), 392–399. https://doi.org/10.1177/070674370805300609
Capodieci, A., & Martinussen, R. (2017). Math error types and correlates in adolescents with and without attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Frontiers in Psychology, 8, Article 1801. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg .2017.01801
Chacko, A., Kofler, M., & Jarrett, M. (2014). Improving outcomes for youth with ADHD: A conceptual framework for combined neurocognitive and skill-based treatment approaches. Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review, 17, 368–384. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10567-014-0171-5
Cho, S. C., Kim, H. W., Kim, B. N., Shin, M. S., Yoo, H. J., Kim, J. W., Bhang, S. Y., & Cho, I. H. (2011). Are teacher ratings and parent ratings differently associated with children’s intelligence and cognitive performance? Psychiatry Investigation, 8(1), 15–21. https://doi.org/10.4306/pi .2011.8.1.15
Cirino, P. T., Chin, C. E., Sevcik, R. A., Wolf, M., Lovett, M., & Morris, R. D. (2002). Measuring socioeconomic status: Reliability and preliminary validity for different approaches. Assessment, 9(2), 145–155. https:// doi.org/10.1177/10791102009002005
Conners, C. K. (2002).Forty yearsof methylphenidatetreatment in attentiondeficit/hyperactivity disorder. Journal of Attention Disorders, 6(Suppl. 1), S17–S30. https://doi.org/10.1177/070674370200601S04
Cragg, L., & Gilmore, C. (2014). Skills underlying mathematics: The role of executive function in the development of mathematics proficiency. Trends in Neuroscienceand Education, 3(2), 63–68. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tine .2013.12.001
Czamara, D., Tiesler, C. M., Kohlböck, G., Berdel, D., Hoffmann, B., Bauer, C. P., Koletzko, S., Schaaf, B., Lehmann, I., Herbarth, O., von Berg, A., Müller-Myhsok, B., Schulte-Körne, G., & Heinrich, J. (2013). Children with ADHD symptoms have a higher risk for reading, spelling and math difficulties in the GINIplus and LISApluscohort studies. PLOS ONE, 8(5), Article e63859. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0063859
Daley, D., & Birchwood, J. (2010). ADHD and academic performance: Why does ADHD impact on academic performance and what can be done to support ADHD children in the classroom? Child: Care, Health and Development, 36(4), 455–464. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2214.2009 .01046.x
David, C. V. (2012). Working memory deficits in math learning difficulties: A meta-analysis. International Journal of Developmental Disabilities, 58(2), 67–84. https://doi.org/10.1179/2047387711Y.0000000007
De Smedt, B., Janssen, R., Bouwens, K., Verschaffel, L., Boets, B., & Ghesquière, P. (2009). Working memory and individual differences in mathematics achievement: A longitudinal study from first grade to second grade. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 103(2), 186–201. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp.2009.01.004
Dehaene, S., Bossini, S., & Giraux, P. (1993). The mental representation of parity and number magnitude. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
General, 122(3), 371–396. https://doi.org/10.1037/0096-3445.122.3.371
Dennis, M., Francis, D. J., Cirino, P. T., Schachar, R., Barnes, M. A., & Fletcher, J. M. (2009). Why IQ is not a covariate in cognitive studies of neurodevelopmental disorders. Journal of the International Neuropsychological Society, 15(3), 331–343. https://doi.org/10.1017/ S1355617709090481
DuPaul, G. J., & Eckert, T. L. (1997). The effects of school-based interventions for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: A meta-analysis. School Psychology Review, 26(1), 5–27. https://doi.org/10.1080/02796015 .1997.12085845
DuPaul, G. J., Gormley, M. J., & Laracy, S. D. (2013). Comorbidity of LD and ADHD: Implications of DSM-5 for assessment and treatment. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 46(1), 43–51. https://doi.org/10.1177/002221941 2464351
DuPaul, G. J., Power, T. J., Anastopoulos, A. D., & Reid, R. (2016). ADHD rating scale-5 for children and adolescents: Checklists, norms, and clinical interpretation. Guilford Press.
Eid, M., Geiser, C., Koch, T., & Heene, M. (2017). Anomalous results in Gfactor models: Explanations and alternatives. Psychological Methods, 22(3), 541–562. https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000083
Eid, M., Krumm, S., Koch, T., & Schulze, J. (2018). Bifactor models for predicting criteria by general and specific factors: Problems of nonidentifiability and alternative solutions. Journal of Intelligence, 6(3), Article 42. https://doi.org/10.3390/jintelligence6030042
Engle, R. W., Tuholski, S. W., Laughlin, J. E., & Conway, A. R. A. (1999). Working memory, short-term memory, and general fluid intelligence: A latent-variable approach. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 128(3), 309–331. https://doi.org/10.1037/0096-3445.128.3.309
Espy, K. A., McDiarmid, M. M., Cwik, M. F., Stalets, M. M., Hamby, A., & Senn, T. E. (2004). The contribution of executive functions to emergent mathematic skills in preschool children. Developmental Neuropsychology, 26(1), 465–486. https://doi.org/10.1207/s15326942dn2601_6
Fassbender, C., & Schweitzer, J. B. (2006). Is there evidence for neural compensation in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder? A review of the functional neuroimaging literature. Clinical Psychology Review, 26(4), 445–465. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpr.2006.01.003
Fosco, W. D., & Hawk, L. W., Jr. (2017). Relating lab to life: Decrements in attention over time predict math productivity among children with ADHD. Child Neuropsychology, 23(2), 148–158. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 09297049.2015.1089982
Fosco, W. D., Kofler, M. J., Groves, N. B., Chan, E. S. M., & Raiker, J. S., Jr. (2020). Which “working” components of working memory aren’t working in youth with ADHD? Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 48(5), 647–660. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10802-020-00621-y
Friedman, L. M., Rapport, M. D., Orban, S. A., Eckrich, S. J., & Calub, C. A. (2018). Applied problem solving in children with ADHD: The mediating roles of working memory and mathematical calculation. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 46(3), 491–504. https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10802-017-0312-7
Friedman, L. M., Rapport, M. D., Raiker, J. S., Orban, S. A., & Eckrich, S. J. (2017). Reading comprehension in boys with ADHD: The mediating roles of working memory and orthographic conversion. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 45(2), 273–287. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10802-0160171-7
Friso-Van den Bos, I., Kroesbergen, E. H., & Van Luit, J. E. (2014). Number sense in kindergarten children: Factor structure and working memory predictors. Learning and Individual Differences, 33, 23–29. https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2014.05.003
Fuchs, L. S., Compton, D. L., Fuchs, D., Paulsen, K., Bryant, J. D., & Hamlett, C. L. (2005). The prevention, identification, and cognitive determinants of math difficulty. Journal of Educational Psychology, 97(3), 493–513. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0663.97.3.493
Fuchs, L. S., Schumacher, R. F., Long, J., Namkung, J., Hamlett, C. L., Cirino, P.T.,Jordan,N.C.,Siegler,R.,Gersten,R.,&Changas,P.(2013).Improving at-risk learners’ understanding of fractions. Journal of Educational Psychology, 105(3), 683–700. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0032446
Fuhs, M. W., Nesbitt, K. T., Farran, D. C., & Dong, N. (2014). Longitudinal associations between executive functioning and academic skills across content areas. Developmental Psychology, 50(6), 1698–1709. https:// doi.org/10.1037/a0036633
Fürst, A. J., & Hitch, G. J. (2000). Separate roles for executive and phonological components of working memory in mental arithmetic.
Memory & Cognition, 28, 774–782. https://doi.org/10.3758/BF03198412
Gathercole, S. E., & Pickering, S. J. (2000). Assessment of working memory in six-and seven-year-old children. Journal of Educational Psychology, 92(2), 377–390. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0663.92.2.377
Geary, D. C. (2011). Cognitive predictors of achievement growth in mathematics: A 5-year longitudinal study. Developmental Psychology, 47(6), 1539–1552. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0025510
Geary, D. C., Hoard, M. K., & Nugent, L. (2012). Independent contributions of the central executive, intelligence, and in-class attentive behavior to developmental change in the strategies used to solve addition problems. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 113(1), 49–65. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jecp.2012.03.003
Gibson, B. S., Gondoli, D. M., Ralph, K. J., & Sztybel, P. (2018). Application of the dual-component model of working memory to ADHD: Greater secondary memory deficit despite confounded cognitive differences. Child Neuropsychology, 24(1), 61–81. https://doi.org/10 .1080/09297049.2016.1225706
Gray, S.,Green, S., Alt, M.,Hogan, T. P.,Kuo, T., Brinkley,S., & Cowan,N. (2017). The structure of working memory in young children and its relation to intelligence. Journal of Memory and Language, 92, 183–201. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jml.2016.06.004
Groves, N. B., Wells, E. L., Soto, E. F., Marsh, C. L., Jaisle, E. M., Harvey, T. K., & Kofler, M. J. (2022). Executive functioning and emotion regulation in children with and without ADHD. Research on Child and Adolescent Psychopathology, 50(6), 721–735. https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10802-021-00883-0
Heinrich, M., Geiser, C., Zagorscak, P., Burns, G. L., Bohn, J., Becker, S. P., Eid, M., Beauchaine, T. P., & Knaevelsrud, C. (2020). On the meaning of the general factor of psychopathology (“P-Factor”) in symmetrical bifactor models. PsyArXiv. https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/syj9k
Hodara, M. (2011). Reforming mathematics classroom pedagogy: Evidencebased findings and recommendations for the developmental math classroom (assessment of evidence series) [CCRC working paper No. 27]. Community College Research Center, Teachers College, Columbia University. https://doi.org/10.7916/D8RF638F
Imbo, I., & LeFevre, J. A. (2010). The role of phonological and visual working memory in complex arithmetic for Chinese- and Canadianeducated adults. Memory & Cognition, 38(2), 176–185. https://doi.org/10 .3758/MC.38.2.176
Jacob, R., & Parkinson, J. (2015). The potential for school-based interventions that target executive function to improve academic achievement: A review. Review of Educational Research, 85(4), 512–
552. https://doi.org/10.3102/0034654314561338
JASP Team. (2021). JASP (Version 0.8.2 software) [Computer software].
Jerman, O., Reynolds, C., & Swanson, H. L. (2012). Does growth in working memory span or executive processes predict growth in reading and math in children with reading disabilities? Learning Disability Quarterly, 35(3), 144–157. https://doi.org/10.1177/0731948712444276
Jitendra, A. K., Dupaul, G. J., Someki, F., & Tresco, K. E. (2008). Enhancing academic achievement for children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder: Evidence from school-based intervention research. Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews, 14(4), 325–330. https:// doi.org/10.1002/ddrr.39
Karalunas, S. L., Gustafsson, H. C., Dieckmann, N. F., Tipsord, J., Mitchell, S. H., & Nigg, J. T. (2017). Heterogeneity in development of aspects of working memory predicts longitudinal ADHD symptom change. Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 126(6), 774–792. https://doi.org/10.1037/ abn0000292
Kasper, L. J., Alderson, R. M., & Hudec, K. L. (2012). Moderators of working memory deficits in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): A meta-analytic review. Clinical Psychology Review, 32(7), 605–617. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpr.2012.07.001
Kaufman, A. S., & Kaufman, N. L. (2014). K-TEA-3: Kaufman test of educational achievement (3rd ed.). Pearson.
Kaufman, J., Birmaher, B., Brent, D., Rao, U. M. A., Flynn, C., Moreci, P., Williamson, D., & Ryan, N. (1997). Schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia for school-age children-present and lifetime version (KSADS-PL): initial reliability and validity data. Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 36(7), 980–988. https:// doi.org/10.1097/00004583-199707000-00021
Kline, R. B. (2016). Principles and practice of structural equation modeling (4th ed.). Guilford Press.
Kofler, M. J., Irwin, L. N., Soto, E. F., Groves, N. B., Harmon, S. L., & Sarver, D. E. (2019). Executive functioning heterogeneity in pediatric ADHD. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 47(2), 273–286. https:// doi.org/10.1007/s10802-018-0438-2
Kofler, M. J., Rapport, M. D., Bolden, J., Sarver, D. E., & Raiker, J. S. (2010). ADHD and working memory: The impact of central executive deficits and exceeding storage/rehearsal capacity on observed inattentive behavior. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 38(2), 149–161. https:// doi.org/10.1007/s10802-009-9357-6
Kofler, M. J., Rapport, M. D., Bolden, J., Sarver, D. E., Raiker, J. S., & Alderson, R. M. (2011). Working memory deficits and social problems in children with ADHD. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 39(6), 805– 817. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10802-011-9492-8
Kofler, M. J., Sarver, D. E., Harmon, S. L., Moltisanti, A., Aduen, P. A., Soto, E. F., & Ferretti, N. (2018). Working memory and organizational skills problems in ADHD. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines, 59(1), 57–67. https://doi.org/10.1111/jcpp.12773 Kofler, M. J., Sarver, D. E., Spiegel, J. A., Day, T. N., Harmon, S. L., & Wells, E. L. (2017). Heterogeneity in ADHD: Neurocognitive predictors of peer, family, and academic functioning. Child Neuropsychology, 23(6), 733–759. https://doi.org/10.1080/09297049.2016.1205010
Kofler, M. J., Singh, L. J., Soto, E. F., Chan, E. S. M., Miller, C. E., Harmon, S. L., & Spiegel, J. A. (2020). Working memory and short-term memory deficits in ADHD: A bifactor modeling approach. Neuropsychology, 34(6), 686–698. https://doi.org/10.1037/neu0000641
Kofler, M. J., Wells, E. L., Singh, L. J., Soto, E. F., Irwin, L. N., Groves, N. B., Chan, E. S. M., Miller, C. E., Richmond, K. P., Schatschneider, C., & Lonigan,C. J. (2020). A randomized controlled trial of central executive training (CET) versus inhibitory control training (ICT) for ADHD. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 88(8), 738–756. https:// doi.org/10.1037/ccp0000550
Korrel, H., Mueller, K. L., Silk, T., Anderson, V., & Sciberras, E. (2017). Research Review: Language problems in children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder—A systematic meta-analytic review. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines, 58(6), 640–654.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jcpp.12688
Lahey, B. B., Pelham, W. E., Loney, J., Lee, S. S., & Willcutt, E. (2005). Instability of the DSM-IV subtypes of ADHD from preschool through elementary school. Archives of General Psychiatry, 62(8), 896–902. https://doi.org/10.1001/archpsyc.62.8.896
Latimer, W. W., August, G. J., Newcomb, M. D., Realmuto, G. M., Hektner, J. M., & Mathy, R. M. (2003). Child and familial pathways to academic achievement and behavioral adjustment: A prospective six-year study of children with and without ADHD. Journal of Attention Disorders, 7(2), 101–116. https://doi.org/10.1177/108705470300700204
LeFever, G. B., Villers, M. S., Morrow, A. L., & Vaughn, E. S., III. (2002). Parental perceptions of adverse educational outcomes among children diagnosed and treated for ADHD: A call for improved school/provider collaboration. Psychology in the Schools, 39(1), 63–71. https://doi.org/10 .1002/pits.10000
Lemaire, P. (1996). The role of working memory resources in simple cognitive arithmetic. The European Journal of Cognitive Psychology, 8(1), 73–104. https://doi.org/10.1080/095414496383211
Loe, I. M., & Feldman, H. M. (2007).Academic and educational outcomes of children with ADHD. Journal of Pediatric Psychology, 32(6), 643–654. https://doi.org/10.1093/jpepsy/jsl054
Maehler, C., & Schuchardt, K. (2016). Working memory in children with specific learning disorders and/or attention deficits. Learning and Individual Differences, 49, 341–347. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2016 .05.007
Mannuzza, S., Klein, R. G., Bessler, A., Malloy, P., & LaPadula, M. (1993). Adult outcome of hyperactive boys. Educational achievement, occupational rank, and psychiatric status. Archives of General Psychiatry, 50(7),
565–576. https://doi.org/10.1001/archpsyc.1993.01820190067007
Marshall, R. M., Hynd, G. W., Handwerk, M. J., & Hall, J. (1997). Academic underachievement in ADHD subtypes. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 30(6), 635–642. https://doi.org/10.1177/00222194970 3000607
Martinussen, R., Hayden, J., Hogg-Johnson, S., & Tannock, R. (2005). A meta-analysis of working memory impairments in children with attentiondeficit/hyperactivity disorder. Journal of the American Academy of Child
& Adolescent Psychiatry, 44(4), 377–384. https://doi.org/10.1097/01.chi .0000153228.72591.73
Mayes, S. D., Calhoun, S. L., & Crowell, E. W. (2000). Learning disabilities and ADHD: Overlapping spectrumn disorders. Journal of Learning
Disabilities, 33(5), 417–424. https://doi.org/10.1177/002221940003300502
McKevett, N. M., & Codding, R. S. (2021). Brief experimental analysis of math interventions: A synthesis of evidence. Assessment for Effective
Intervention, 46(3), 217–227. https://doi.org/10.1177/1534508419883937
Menon, V. (2016). Working memory in children’s math learning and its disruption in dyscalculia. Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences, 10, 125–132. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobeha.2016.05.014
Metcalfe, A. W., Ashkenazi, S., Rosenberg-Lee, M., & Menon, V. (2013). Fractionating the neural correlates of individual working memory components underlying arithmetic problem solving skills in children. Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, 6, 162–175. https://doi.org/10 .1016/j.dcn.2013.10.001
Mix, K. S., & Cheng, Y. L. (2012). The relation between space and math: Developmental and educational implications. Advances in Child Development and Behavior, 42, 197–243. https://doi.org/10.1016/B9780-12-394388-0.00006-X
Muthén, L. K., & Muthén, B. (2012). Mplus: Statistical analysis with latent variables user’s guide [Version 7].
Nee, D. E., Brown, J. W., Askren, M. K., Berman, M. G., Demiralp, E., Krawitz, A., & Jonides, J. (2013). A meta-analysis of executive components of working memory. Cerebral Cortex, 23(2), 264–282. https://doi.org/10 .1093/cercor/bhs007
Oberauer, K., & Hein, L. (2012). Attention to information in working memory. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 21(3), 164–169.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0963721412444727
Papageorgiou, V., Kalyva, E., Dafoulis, V., & Vostanis, P. (2008). Differences in parents’ and teachers’ ratings of ADHD symptoms and other mental health problems. European Journal of Psychiatry, 22(4), 200–210. https://doi.org/10.4321/S0213-61632008000400003
Patros, C. H., Alderson, R. M., Lea, S. E., Tarle, S. J., Kasper, L. J., & Hudec, K. L. (2015). Visuospatial working memory underlies choice-impulsivity in boyswith attention-deficit/hyperactivitydisorder. ResearchinDevelopmental Disabilities, 38, 134–144. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2014.12.016
Peng, P., Namkung, J., Barnes, M., & Sun, C. (2016). A meta-analysis of mathematics and working memory: Moderating effects of working memory domain, type of mathematics skill, and sample characteristics. Journal of Educational Psychology, 108(4), 455–473. https://doi.org/10 .1037/edu0000079
Polanczyk, G. V., Willcutt, E. G., Salum, G. A., Kieling, C., & Rohde, L. A. (2014). ADHD prevalence estimates across three decades: An updated systematic review and meta-regression analysis. International Journal of Epidemiology, 43(2), 434–442. https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dyt261
Preacher, K. J., & Coffman, D. (2006). Computing power and minimum sample size for RMSEA [Computer software]. https://quantpsy.org/
Preacher, K. J., Rucker, D. D., & Hayes, A. F. (2007). Addressing moderated mediation hypotheses: Theory, methods, and prescriptions. Multivariate Behavioral Research, 42(1), 185–227. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 00273170701341316
Raggi, V. L., & Chronis, A. M. (2006). Interventions to address the academic impairment of children and adolescents with ADHD. Clinical Child and Family PsychologyReview, 9(2), 85–111. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10567006-0006-0
Raghubar, K. P., Barnes, M. A., & Hecht, S. A. (2010). Working memory and mathematics: A review of developmental, individual difference, and cognitive approaches. Learning and Individual Differences, 20(2), 110– 122. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2009.10.005
Raiker, J. S., Rapport, M. D., Kofler, M. J., & Sarver, D. E. (2012). Objectively-measured impulsivity and ADHD: Testing competing predictions from the working memory and behavioral inhibition models
of ADHD. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 40, 699–713. https:// doi.org/10.1007/s10802-011-9607-2
Rapport, M. D., Alderson, R. M., Kofler, M. J., Sarver, D. E., Bolden, J., & Sims, V. (2008). Working memory deficits in boys with attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): The contribution of central executive and subsystem processes. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 36(6), 825– 837. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10802-008-9215-y
Rapport, M. D., Bolden, J., Kofler, M. J., Sarver, D. E., Raiker, J. S., & Alderson, R. M. (2009). Hyperactivity in boys with ADHD: A ubiquitous core symptom or manifestation of working memory deficits? Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 37, 521–534. https://doi.org/10.1007/s108 02-008-9287-8
Rapport, M. D., Orban, S. A., Kofler, M. J., & Friedman, L. M. (2013). Do programs designed to train working memory, other executive functions, and attention benefit children with ADHD? A meta-analytic review of cognitive, academic, and behavioral outcomes. Clinical Psychology Review, 33(8), 1237–1252. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpr.2013.08.005
Re, A. M., Lovero, F., Cornoldi, C., & Passolunghi, M. C. (2016). Difficulties of children with ADHD symptoms in solving mathematical problems when information must be updated. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 59, 186–193. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2016.09.001
Rennie, B., Beebe-Frankenberger, M., & Swanson, H. L. (2014). A longitudinal study of neuropsychological functioning and academic achievement in children with and without signs of ADHD. Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, 36(6), 621–635. https:// doi.org/10.1080/13803395.2014.921284
Reynolds, C. R., & Kamphaus, R. W. (2004). Behavior assessment system for children, (BASC-2). American Guidance Service.
Rodriguez, A., Reise, S. P., & Haviland, M. G. (2016a). Applying bifactor statistical indices in the evaluation of psychological measures. Journal of Personality Assessment, 98(3), 223–237. https://doi.org/10.1080/00223891 .2015.1089249
Rodriguez, A., Reise, S. P., & Haviland, M. G. (2016b). Evaluating bifactor models: Calculating and interpreting statistical indices. Psychological Methods, 21(2), 137–150. https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000045
Rogers, M., Hwang, H., Toplak, M., Weiss, M., & Tannock, R. (2011). Inattention, working memory, and academic achievement in adolescents referred for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Child Neuropsychology, 17(5), 444–458. https://doi.org/10.1080/09297049.2010 .544648
Rosseel, Y. (2012). Lavaan: An R package for structural equation modeling and more. Journal of Statistical Software, 48(2), 1–36. https://doi.org/10 .18637/jss.v048.i02
Sarver, D., Rapport, M., Kofler, M., Raiker, J., & Friedman, L. (2015). Hyperactivity in ADHD: Impairing deficit or compensatory behavior? Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 43, 1219–1232. https://doi.org/10 .1007/s10802-015-0011-1
Satorra, A., & Bentler, P. M. (2010). Ensuring positiveness of the scaled difference chi-square test statistic. Psychometrika, 75(2), 243–248. https:// doi.org/10.1007/s11336-009-9135-y
Sattler, J. M., Dumont, R., & Coalson, D. L. (2016). Assessment of children: WISC-V and WPPSI-IV. Jerome M. Sattler, Publisher.
Schultz, B. K., Evans, S. W., & Serpell, Z. N. (2009). Preventing failure among middle school students with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: A survival analysis. School Psychology Review, 38(1), 14–27.
https://doi.org/10.1080/02796015.2009.12087846
Seron, X., Pesenti, M., Noël, M. P., Deloche, G., & Cornet, J. A. (1992). Images of numbers, or “When 98 is upper left and 6 sky blue”. Cognition, 44(1–2), 159–196. https://doi.org/10.1016/0010-0277(92)90053-K
Simmons, F. R., Willis, C., & Adams, A. M. (2012). Different components of working memory have different relationships with different mathematical skills. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 111(2), 139–155. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp.2011.08.011
Singh, L., Gaye, F., Cole, A. M., Chan, E., & Kofler, M. (2022). Academic outcomes: Behavioral parent training vs. central executive training vs. inhibitory control training for ADHD. PsyArXiv. https://doi.org/10 .31234/osf.io/jmwbx
Smith, E. E., Jonides, J., & Koeppe, R. A. (1996). Dissociating verbal and spatial working memory using PET. Cerebral Cortex, 6(1), 11–20. https:// doi.org/10.1093/cercor/6.1.11
Snyder, H. R., Miyake, A., & Hankin, B. L. (2015). Advancing understanding of executive function impairments and psychopathology: Bridging the gap between clinical and cognitive approaches. Frontiers in Psychology, 6, Article 328. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2015.00328
Soto, E. F., Irwin, L. N., Chan, E. S. M., Spiegel, J. A., & Kofler, M. J. (2021). Executive functions and writing skills in children with and without ADHD. Neuropsychology, 35(8), 792–808. https://doi.org/10.1037/neu 0000769
Swanson, H. L. (2006). Cognitive processes that underlie mathematical precociousness in young children. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 93(3), 239–264. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp.2005.09.006
Swanson, H. L., & Fung, W. (2016). Working memory components and problem-solving accuracy: Are there multiple pathways? Journal of Educational Psychology, 108(8), 1153–1177. https://doi.org/10.1037/edu 0000116
Swanson, H. L., Jerman, O., & Zheng, X. (2008). Growth in working memory and mathematical problem solving in children at risk and not at risk for serious math difficulties. Journal of Educational Psychology, 100(2), 343–379. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0663.100.2.343
Swanson, H. L., & Kim, K. (2007). Working memory, short-term memory, and naming speed as predictors of children’s mathematical performance.
Intelligence, 35(2), 151–168. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intell.2006.07.001
Tarle, S. J., Alderson, R. M., Patros, C. H. G., Lea, S. E., Hudec, K. L., & Arrington, E. F. (2017). Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and phonological working memory: Methodological variability affects clinical and experimental performance metrics. Neuropsychology, 31(4), 383– 394. https://doi.org/10.1037/neu0000364
Thoemmes, F. (2015). Reversing arrows in mediation models does not distinguish plausible models. Basic and Applied Social Psychology, 37(4), 226–234. https://doi.org/10.1080/01973533.2015.1049351
Tillman, C., Eninger, L., Forssman, L., & Bohlin, G. (2011). The relation between working memory components and ADHD symptoms from a developmental perspective. Developmental Neuropsychology, 36(2), 181– 198. https://doi.org/10.1080/87565641.2010.549981
Tosto, M. G., Momi, S. K., Asherson, P., & Malki, K. (2015). A systematic review of ADHD and mathematical ability: Current findings and future implications. BMC Medicine, 13(1), Article 204. https://doi.org/10.1186/ s12916-015-0414-4
Tourva, A., Spanoudis, G., & Demetriou, A. (2016). Cognitive correlates of developing intelligence: The contribution of working memory, processing speed and attention. Intelligence, 54, 136–146. https://doi.org/10.1016/j .intell.2015.12.001
Tripp, G., Schaughency, E. A., & Clarke, B. (2006). Parent and teacher rating scales in the evaluation of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder: Contribution to diagnosis and differential diagnosis in clinically referred children. Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, 27(3), 209–218. https://doi.org/10.1097/00004703-200606000-00006
Valo, S., & Tannock, R. (2010). Diagnostic instability of DSM–IV ADHD subtypes: Effects of informant source, instrumentation, and methods for combining symptom reports. Journal of Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology, 39(6), 749–760. https://doi.org/10.1080/15374416.2010 .517172
Van der Oord, S., Prins, P. J., Oosterlaan, J., & Emmelkamp, P. M. (2008). Efficacy of methylphenidate, psychosocial treatments and their combination in school-aged children with ADHD: A meta-analysis. Clinical Psychology Review, 28(5), 783–800. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpr.2007 .10.007
Verhulst, F. C., Koot, H. M., & Van der Ende, J. (1994). Differential predictive value of parents’ and teachers’ reports of children’s problem behaviors: A longitudinal study. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 22(5), 531–546. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02168936
Wager, T. D., & Smith, E. E. (2003). Neuroimaging studies of working memory: A meta-analysis. Cognitive, Affective & Behavioral
Neuroscience, 3(4), 255–274. https://doi.org/10.3758/CABN.3.4.255
Watkins, M. W. (2017). The reliability of multidimensional neuropsychological measures: From alpha to omega. The Clinical Neuropsychologist, 31(6–7), 1113–1126. https://doi.org/10.1080/13854046.2017.1317364 Wells, E. L., Kofler, M. J., Soto, E. F., Schaefer, H. S., & Sarver, D. E. (2018). Assessing working memory in children with ADHD: Minor administration and scoring changes may improve digit span backward’s construct validity. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 72, 166–178. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2017.10.024
Wilens, T. E., Biederman, J., & Spencer, T. J. (2002). Attention deficit/ hyperactivity disorder across the lifespan. Annual Review of Medicine,
53(1), 113–131. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.med.53.082901.103945
Willcutt, E. G., Nigg, J. T., Pennington, B. F., Solanto, M. V., Rohde, L. A., Tannock, R., Loo, S. K., Carlson, C. L., McBurnett, K., & Lahey, B. B. (2012). Validity of DSM-IV attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptom dimensions and subtypes. Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 121(4), 991–1010. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0027347
Xenidou-Dervou, I., De Smedt, B., van der Schoot,M., & van Lieshout,E. C. (2013). Individual differences in kindergarten math achievement: The integrative roles of approximation skills and working memory. Learning and Individual Differences, 28, 119–129. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif .2013.09.012
Zentall, S. S. (2007). Math performance of students with ADHD: Cognitive and behavioral contributors and interventions. In D. B. Berch & M. M. M. Mazzocco (Eds.), Why is math so hard for some children? The nature and origins of mathematical learning difficulties anddisabilities (pp. 219–243). Paul H. Brookes Publishing.
Zentall, S. S., Smith, Y. N., Lee, Y. B. B., & Wieczorek, C. (1994). Mathematical outcomes of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 27(8), 510–519. https://doi.org/10 .1177/002221949402700806
Zheng, X., Swanson, H. L., & Marcoulides, G. A. (2011). Working memory components as predictors of children’s mathematical word problem solving. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 110(4), 481–498. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp.2011.06.001
Received May 12, 2022
Revision received May 23, 2023
Accepted June 12, 2023 ▪
Human memory retention and recall processes A review of EEG and fMRI studies
Hafeezullah Amin, BS, MS, Aamir S. Malik, MS, PhD.
 
I
ABSTRACT
يعد مفهوم آلية ذاكرة الإنسان من المفاهيم المهمة في علم النفس المعرفي والعلوم العصبية. يشترك العقل البشري في أنشطة التعلم والحفظ.  وبشكل عام تصنف ذاكرة الإنسان إلى مجموعتان ذاكرة قصيرة المدى وذاكرة طويلة المدى. باستخدام نماذج مختلفة للذاكرة وطرق الخرائط الذهنية تعرف أخصائيو العلوم العصبية والنفسية إلى 3 عمليات للذاكرة وهي عملية استقبال المعلومات ،وحفظ المعلومات، ثم استرجاع المعلومات. وقد تمت دراسة هذه العمليات باستخدام الأشعة التصويرية والرنين المغناطيسي في أبحاث العلوم العصبية والمعرفية. في هذا السياق، نراجع الأبحاث التي تطرقت إلى آلية عمل الذاكرة باستخدام الأشعة التصويرية والرنين المغناطيسي، وصعوبات متعلقة بأبحاث العقل باستخدام طريقة الأشعة التصويرية والمقطعية.
Human memory is an important concept in cognitive psychology and neuroscience. Our brain is actively engaged in functions of learning and memorization. Generally, human memory has been classified into 2 groups: short-term/working memory, and longterm memory. Using different memory paradigms and brain mapping techniques, psychologists and neuroscientists have identified 3 memory processes: encoding, retention, and recall. These processes have been studied using EEG and functional MRI (fMRI) in cognitive and neuroscience research. This study reviews previous research reported for human memory processes, particularly brain behavior in memory retention and recall processes with the use of EEG and fMRI. We discuss issues and challenges related to memory research with EEG and fMRI techniques.
Neurosciences 2013; Vol. 18 (4): 330-344 
From the Center for Intelligent Signal and Imaging Research, Department of Electrical & Electronics Engineering, Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Perak, Malaysia.
Address correspondence and reprint request to: Dr. Aamir S. Malik, Associate Professor, Center for Intelligent Signal and Imaging Research, Department of Electrical & Electronics Engineering, Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Bandar Seri Iskandar, 31750 Tronoh,  Perak, Malaysia. Tel. +605 3687853. Fax. +605 3657443. 
E-mail: aamir_saeed@petronas.com.my
Disclosure. This research was funded by the University Research Internal Fund (URIF: 17/2011), Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Perak, Malaysia.
n cognitive psychology, learning and memory are 
2 closely related concepts, but they are not unitary processes. An essential part of our daily life is to attain new skills. We continue to learn new and different skills that enable us to perform in every phase of our life. We learn to walk, cook, drive a car, operate a computer, throw a ball, and play a game. We learn to fear hazardous circumstances and appreciate a particular type of music. We learn to speak and comprehend specific linguistics. We learn about personal autobiography, our own family tree, and world history. All of these skills are acquired through the learning process and retained in the memory for later use by other brain processes.1 The purpose of this paper is to give a brief review of EEG and functional MRI (fMRI) studies on human memory processes involved in memory retention and retrieval/ recall tasks, along with the diverse types of stimuli used in memory and cognitive tasks. Further, the aim is to highlight issues and challenges with EEG and fMRI techniques in memory research.
How many types of memories are there? Many theories and models have reported that the main types of memory are distinguishable according to capacity, processing speed, and storage span.1,2 Theoretically, memory is classified mostly into 2 general categories: short-term and long-term. The terms “short-term” and “long-term” memory are used imprecisely to represent 
 
memory practices. Mark3 defined the 2 main types of memory as follows: short-term memory (STM) is the competency to store evidence, data, and information momentarily for seconds before it is amalgamated into long-term memory (LTM); while LTM is the competency to learn new material (evidence, data, information) and recall this material after some time has passed.
Many studies have investigated the construct of working memory (WM), which refers to a capacity that temporarily stores a limited quantity of material in the brain for manipulation in order to help our learning and reasoning abilities.3-6 Cowan7 differentiated between LTM, STM, and WM, and he defined WM as one that includes a storage component analogous to STM, and further processing mechanisms that support the use of STM. Further, Engle8 separated WM from STM and specified that WM is concerned with the attention related aspects of STM. Regardless of differences between WM and STM, in practice, the 2 can be used interchangeably,9 which may indicate that there is slight discrepancy or close resemblance from a functional point of view between WM and STM.
The second main type of memory is the LTM storage, which is further divided into 2 sub categories; namely, semantic LTM and episodic LTM.10,11 The concepts of semantic and episodic memory were introduced by Tulving.12 According to Tulving, episodic memory refers to memory for personal events and temporal-spatial relations among these events, whereas semantic memory refers to structured knowledge that one has about real world entities (for example, symbols, words, and concepts), their meaning and relations with each other, and ideas about their use. In other words, episodic memory is concerned with and holds the “what,” “when,” “where” of daily life events, while semantic memory is related with facts that are strongly encoded in the mind and do not need any effort for 
retrieval.11 
Besides these memory types, psychologists and neuroscientists have also investigated the memory processes - encoding, retention, and recall - associated with brain responses using memory tests and brain mapping techniques. For example, in neuroimaging, the fMRI is used, however, for brain electrical activities, the EEG is widely used. In the process of encoding, information from STM is transferred to LTM via involvement of the hippocampus. The hippocampus is the brain region responsible for encoding and memory formation. Battaglia et al13 and Kryukov14 recently reviewed the role of the hippocampus in the process of encoding and its various issues. Memory retention is the skill of the human mind to hold information in the brain for various durations, depending upon the type of memory and stimulus,1,2,15 repetitions in recall,16 levels of attention,17 and emotion.18 In the process of recall we recollect, stored material (for example, stimulus and event) in the brain via response(s) to some external stimulus.1,2,15
The subsequent sections describe reported brain regions related with memory functions, memory paradigms, EEG, and fMRI memory studies, issues, challenges, and conclusions.
Human memory. Chang et al9 reported the Atkinson & Shiffrin Memory Model and related the workings of human memory with an information processing system, as shown in Figure 1. 
According to the Oxford dictionary memory is defined as: “the mental capacity of holding evidences, actions, imitations, and so forth or recollecting earlier practices.” Nevertheless, from the contemporary biological and psychological research perspective, the definition of memory, and regions associated with it are not so easily defined. Functionally, memory is defined as the capability to encode, hold, and subsequently remember material in the brain. From a psychological and neurological viewpoint, memory is the collection of encoded neural connections in the brain. It is the rebuilding of previous happenings and practices by a synchronous firing of neurons that were fired at the time of learning. Table 1 presents the different brain parts with their related memory and cognitive responsibilities. 
The human memory system is a complex system and is difficult to separate its components into different parts. However, in terms of time, capacity, and operations, it is typically divided into 3 types:9 
(i) Sensory memory: The capability of holding sensory information from stimuli received through the 5 senses (visual, auditory, odor, taste, and tactile). Its time duration is very short and occurs in seconds. It 
 
Figure 1 - Atkinson-Shiffrin Memory Model. Reprinted from Chang TWK, Chen NS, Yu PT. The effects of presentation method and information density on visual search ability and working memory load. Computers and Education 2012; 58: 721-731 with permission from Elsevier.9
Table 1 - Different brain regions with associated memory and cognitive functions.19
Brain parts	Memory processes
Frontal lobe	Working and STM 
Temporal lobe	Hearing sense
Parietal lobe	Spatial memory 
Occipital lobe (visual cortex)	Visual memory
Thalamus	Attention
Mamillary body	Episodic memory
Caudate nucleus	Memories of instinctive skills
Caudate nucleus (temporal, right)	Instinctive actions, e.g., grooming is stored here
Putamen	Procedural skills
Putamen (temporal, right)	Learning skills, e.g., the ability to ride a motorbike
Amygdala	Emotional memories
Hippocampus	Activated to transfer experiences into memories, e.g., STM to LTM
Cerebellum	Conditional memories, e.g., events linked by time
Central executive (frontal, right)	Holds entire plan, including visual elements
STM - short-term memory, LTM - long-term memory
 
works as a buffer in getting the stimuli via the senses (for example, eyes and ears). This information is then handed over from sensory to STM through selective attention. 
(ii)	Short-term memory: A temporary storage of small amounts of material for a short period, typically up to 15 seconds for approximately 7 items - information generated in STM due to paying attention to sensory memory. 
(iii)	Long-term memory: The collection of material over long durations of time; includes unlimited amounts of information.
Various studies have been reported on these memory types based on different conditions and different types of stimuli; for example, words, 2D images, digits, 3D objects, and sounds. Babiloni et al20 investigated human cortical reactions by using a 2D simple visuospatial task of one bit to be memorized during STM. In the task, 2 vertical bars were used as a stimulus and subjects reacted after a 3.5 to 5.5 second delay time. No statistical difference between the 2 conditions was reported, but the EEG results revealed that during the delay period the power of theta (4-6 Hz) declined in the bilateral parietal regions and left frontal region. In addition, in the bilateral frontal and left parietal regions, low alpha power (6-8 Hz) was reduced, but a decrease was observed in high alpha power (10-12 Hz) in the left frontal-parietal areas. The author concluded that a very easy STM task results in alterations in the theta and alpha frequencies at the frontal-parietal region. In another EEG study, Babiloni et al21 examined theta, alpha, and gamma changes in a visuo-spatial long-term episodic memory test during encoding and recall stages. The delay for the retrieval task was one hour. Their results suggested that eminent gamma reactions over the left parietal cortex are associated with encoding conditions, while retrieval processes are associated with the right parietal cortex. Burgess and Gruzelier22 used words and faces as stimuli and examined memoryrelated changes in the EEG. At the temporal sites (T5/ T6) and in the first 250 ms, they found the existence of a short duration increase in the theta range.
Kirov et al23 presented that similar transcranial slow oscillation stimulation (tSOS) used in awakening the brain also causes a rise in EEG slow oscillations (0.41.2Hz), as well as an obvious and extensive rise in EEG theta (4-8Hz) activity. In awakened conditions, the tSOS failed to improve memory consolidation once used after learning, but a better encoding of hippocampus dependent memories was found when used in the course of learning.  
Chang et al9 studied WM load and visual search capability by using a change detection of 2, 4x4 dot arrays in successive and simultaneous forms of presentation with 3 various information density conditions of 75%, 50%, and 25%. Their results showed significant variations between the WM load and visual search capability at different levels of information density for the 2 different forms of presentation.
Jongsma et al24 investigated the relationship of event related potentials (ERP) with learning and memory processes by using multiple digits learning trials. They observed corresponding memory improvements in the middle of the stimuli sequence. The study used auditory digits as the stimulus and free recall task for measurement of memory performance such as recalling items in correct position in the sequence. They concluded there was a close correspondence between memory performance and amplitude of ERP component - P300.
Memory retention and recall processes. Memory retention and recalling are key memory processes. Retention is the capability to hold information, and retrieval is the recollection of held information in the mind in response to external stimuli. Cognitive research literature1,15,16 has highlighted that these processes are related to one another and also to factors such as learning, testing, and capacity limit of memory, attention demand, and complexity of material. The conventional concept of learning and retrieval is that learning takes place during events of studying, while retrieval helps to assess the learned contents. Psychologists studied learning by trials of study (S) and a test (T). The critical assumption is that learning happens during study phases while retrieval (test) simply measures contents learned in past study phases (of STSTST…order). The same theory is followed in educational systems, learning occurs during lectures, reading, and study groups. Tests have been designed to judge what has been absorbed or learned by studying. These tests are considered assessments or evaluations of learned knowledge. 
Recently, a study of reviewed evidence opposes this conventional perception: retrieval exercises during tests have often-caused better learning and long-term retention than studying.25 In similar studies, Karpicke and Roediger16,26 experimentally examined retention related to learning with repeated testing, and they suggested that the repeated recalling of held information led to better learning and long-term retention. In one experiment, participants were given a list of items to study under 2 different conditions. In one condition, the list was studied 15 times and tested 5 times, while in the other condition the list was studied 5 times and tested 15 times. A retrieval task after one week showed better learning and retention results in the repeated test condition cohort as compared with the repeated study cohort. In another study, Marois and Ivanoff27 reviewed capacity and processing limitations of the brain on visual STM and emphasized 3 limitations: (a) the time required to identify a visual stimulus, (b) the number of visual stimuli that can be held in STM, and (c) the selection of suitable response for a stimulus. Diamantopoulou et al28 used different categories of stimuli and studied memory capacity and memorization. They argued that estimates of memory capacity and memorization were more dependent on resemblances in stimuli. The behavioral results of the study suggested increased response times and error rates with memory load.
Karlsgodt et al29 conducted a fMRI study that used a verbal WM test. In encoding, maintenance, and recall, a within-subject comparison of functional activation suggested that the hippocampus had a role in WM like the one it had in LTM; implying that the hippocampus might be involved in overall encoding and recalling rather than just in LTM tasks.
Bankó and Vidnyánszky30 used a delayed facial emotion discrimination task in which 2 faces (sample and test) were used as a stimulus. The stimuli comprised a frontal view of faces with slowly varying emotional expression of happiness. Two faces were presented for 300 ms with 2 different retention intervals, either 1-s or 6-s inter-stimulus-intervals. They explored the STM processes for facial emotional features and concluded that the retention interval tempers neural processes in the STM encoding process.  
Joiner & Smith31 studied the effects of slow and fast learning processes on memory retention. They found that the slow learning process strongly contributed to LTM more so than a fast learning process.
Effects of content on memory. Different theories exist regarding the effects of contents,32 modalities,32 presentation modes, and stimulus types33 on memory processes and brain responses. Khairudin et al34 used stimuli of words and pictures to investigate the effects of emotional contents on explicit memory. Words and pictures were presented in positive, negative, and neutral categories in 2 separate experiments. Their results suggested evidence of better memory performance for pictures than for words, and the comparison of positive with negative stimuli indicated that positive stimuli in explicit memory were remembered better than the negative. Thus, they concluded that negative content suppressed explicit memory. In another study, Crottaz-Herbette et al32 observed modality effects in verbal WM. They employed fMRI with analogous stimuli and investigated the resemblances and variances between visual verbal WM and auditory verbal WM. They examined similarities and differences during visual and auditory tasks in brain activation. The statistical comparison presented significant modality effects in the activation of the prefrontal and parietal cortex, as the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) showed greater activation in auditory verbal WM. However, in visual verbal WM, the left posterior parietal cortex was highly activated when compared with auditory verbal WM processing. No such variances were found in the right hemisphere. Grady et al35 used words and pictures of objects as different types of stimuli and investigated the effects of stimulus types in the right PFC in recognition memory. They observed that the number of correctly recognized items was larger for object stimuli than for words, and that the response time was significantly faster for objects than for words. Lee et al36 investigated the effects of verbal and visual stimuli on memory processes in episodic memory. Their study found that in left lateral PFC, verbal memory tasks were related with regional cerebral blood flow changes, while visual memory tasks were associated with changes in the right lateral PFC. Maass et al37 examined the effects of 2 different computer game contents on memory performance, learning, and information processing in adolescents. They compared the effects of violent versus non-violent game contents under 2 conditions: playing, and watching. The results suggested that violent content had a negative short-term impact on learning and information processing. Eng et al38 measured visual WM capacity for 6 types of stimuli: faces, cubes, polygons, squiggles, colors, and letters of diverse complexity. They concluded that estimated visual WM decreased for stimuli that were more complex. Table 2 summarizes memory studies of investigated content effects on memory processes.
Memory paradigms. We found numerous memory paradigms in the literature for learning, memory types (WM, STM, LTM), memory processes (retention, recalling, encoding) for different stimulus (visual, auditory), and complexity level (easy, hard). Many of these paradigms are commonly applied in cognitive studies. Table 3 presents a list of memory paradigms currently in practice in memory research.
Modalities and memory research. In this section, we concentrate on the 2 most commonly used modalities; namely, EEG and fMRI.
Electroencephalography. The EEG provides a large scale, robust measure of neocortical dynamic function.57 The EEG analysis is a comprehensive analysis of the brain’s electrical field at the scalp’s surface due to its direct measurement of brain neuronal activity with high temporal resolution. It consists of several frequency bands associated with different brain states. Table 4 summarizes common frequency bands related with brain states and activation regions.
 
Table 2 - Summary of memory studies investigating content effects on memory processes.
Study	Contents/modality	Memory processes	Findings	Subjects	Status	Age (mean)
Grady et al39	Pictures and words	Recognition memory	Picture stimuli were recognized more than words with a faster response time than words	  12	Normal	Mean: 25.6
Duarte et al40	Objects (pictures) and words	Recognition memory	Source memory related activity differs according to the nature of stimulus materials	  15	Normal	18-32
Lee et al36	Verbal and non-verbal stimulus	Encoding and retrieval in 
episodic memory	95.7% of verbal material was retrieved compared with 94% visual material	    8	Normal	21-61
Maass et al37	Violent versus nonviolent computer game	Memory and learning	Violent content has a negative short-term effect on information processing and learning	167	Normal	Mean: 17.6
Velisavljevic and Elder41	Coherent and scrambled images of natural scenes	Recognition performance in 
STM	Contents near the center of the frame were better memorized	  10	Normal	20-34
Van der Ham 
et al42	Large and small cross dot	WM performance	Coordinate performance was accurate with the small cross and categorical processing was 
faster with the large cross	  33	Patients	18-80
Testa et al43	Objects, words, and faces	Recognition memory	Memory ability was better for objects and faces but poor for words stimuli with LTLE patients. Memory performance was good for objects, words, but relatively poor for face stimuli in RTLE patients.	  63	Patients	
Prince et al44	Faces and places	Encoding and retrieval	Right FFA was associated with memory in encoding and retrieval processes, while left FFA was linked with memory in encoding only in face sensitive areas Left PPA was related with positive memory in encoding and retrieval; while right PPA was related with positive memory in encoding only in the sensitive area	  19	Normal	Mean: 27.7
Levens and Phelps45	Emotional versus neutral stimuli (words and pictures)	Interactions between emotion 
and interference in WM	Significantly longer RT for interference trials than non-interference trials.
Interference found reduced conflict in trials with emotional stimuli	  44	Normal	18 or above
Berti and Schroger46	Auditory and visual distractor stimuli	WM	Highly significant difference in RT between auditory and visual modality	  10	Normal	19-29
STM - short-term memory, WM - working memory, LTLE- left temporal lobe epilepsy, RTLE- right temporal lobe epilepsy, FFA - fusiform face area, 
PPA - para-hippocampal place area, RT - reaction time
 
Table 3 - List of different memory paradigms applied in memory studies with pros and cons. 
Paradigms	Purpose	Pros	Cons
Sternberg memory task47	STM	Encoding, retention, and retrieval processes are not overlapping	Low manipulation
Spatial delayed response task48	Short-term and long-term delayed response	Highly used for visual memory and location assessment	Creates boredom in participants when tasks require longer delays with many 
conditions and trials   
Self-ordered pointing task49	WM	Useful to assess executive functions	Limited to WM content
Running span task50	WM 	Increased attention demand	Recency effect
PASAT51	WM, information processing, and attention	Widely used for patients with multiple sclerosis	Creates anxiety and frustration in participants due to high rapid response 
demand in PASAT
N-back task54	WM 	Manipulation and updating  processes are involved	Encoding, retention, and recalling overlap
Karpicke & Roediger learning task16	Learning and retrieval in LTM auditory 	Useful for testing effects on learning and memory 	Specific to LTM retrieval only
Auditory digit span test53	Auditory STM and WM	Helps assess the ability of auditory information processing and its capacity 	Specific to auditory memory only
Visual digit span54	Visual STM and WM	Able to evaluate the ability of visual information processing and its capacity	Limited to digits and visual memory only
Corsi block tapping task55	Visual memory	Useful to assess visuo-spatial memory in patients with brain injury	Limited to visual stimulus with location only  
Oddball task56	To observe the ability of target detection 	Assesses neural reactions to unpredictable and recognizable events, 
and studies ERP signal	Stimuli dependent, synchronization required
PASAT - Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test, ERP - event related potential, STM - short-term memory, LTM - long-term memory, 
WM - working memory
 
 
Table 4 - Electroencephalography (EEG) frequency bands with related brain parts.
Frequency Band	Range
(Hz)	Brain region	State
Delta	0.5-4	Thalamus	Deep sleep in adults
Theta	4-7	Hippocampus	Dreaming sleep
Alpha	8-12	Posterior regions, central cites at rest	Relax, close eye, 
awake
Beta	13-30	Frontal region	Alertness and concentration
Gamma 	Above 30	Somatosensory cortex	Sudden bursts
Changes in EEG activity during STM/WM and LTM memory task performance in encoding, retention, and retrieval processes were reported mostly in theta and alpha bands and rarely in other ranges. Harmony et al58 investigated delta bands during mental tasks that required mental internal processing by performing 2 experiments: (i) a tough mental calculation task with a control stimulus and (ii) the Sternberg task for STM analysis adopting either a 3 or 5 digit memory load. Stimuli were shown randomly in both experiments. The study found increased delta power between 1.56 and 3.90 Hz in mental tasks that were dependent on task difficulty. Klimesch59 reported that short-term episodic memory loads caused an increase in theta band power, which implies more synchronization. The study also suggested changes in theta power in the anterior limbic system. Grunwald et al60 reported theta power changes in the handling of diverse complex haptic stimuli by a delayed recall design. During the retention interval, the study found a direct association between theta activity over electrode sites (Fp1, Fp2, F3, F7, F8, C3), corresponding to frontal-central regions with a mean assessment time for complex haptic stimuli. The observation indicated a functional association between the brain’s electrical activity and WM processing in the theta bandwidth. Wilson et al,61 studied the effect of task difficulty and the temporal effect related to keeping items in memory before memory recall. There was a significant increase in response during the retention period for the most difficult tasks at frontal 
 
increased with an increase in the number of objects held in WM. This result differs from earlier reports that alpha power declined due to memory load in diverse WM. This contradiction may be due to the type of memory task used, because reports claiming that alpha power decreased with memory load used the n-back memory task, while reports claiming that alpha power increased with memory load used the Sternberg task. 
Friese et al63 investigated the functional relationship between EEG frontal theta, prefrontal and occipital alpha, and posterior gamma activity during successful memory formation as shown in Figure 2. They observed enhanced cross-frequency coupling between frontal theta phase and posterior gamma power during the encoding of visual stimuli in 2 conditions; namely, subsequent remember (SR) and subsequent forget (SF). 
Figure 2 - The EEG theta, alpha, and gamma activity changes during High theta in frontal, high gamma in parietal, low alpha memory encoding, maintenance, and retrieval processes are shown. A) Depicts averaged power of theta, alpha, and gamma in prefrontal and occipital regions were associated with under 2 conditions; namely, item remembered and forgotten. successful memory encoding, maintenance, and retrieval B) Depicts estimated source localization of subsequent processes. This study demonstrated the interaction memory effects (remember versus forgotten). In the left panel, between frontal and posterior brain regions during new electrodes are marked where the difference between SR and SF is significant. Reprinted from Friese U, Köster M, Hassler U, memory formation. Table 5 presents a summary of EEG Martens U, Trujillo-Barreto N, Gruber T. Successful memory studies that investigated memory and cognitive tasks. encoding is associated with increased cross-frequency coupling Event related potential. An ERP is a measurement between frontal theta and posterior gamma oscillations in human scalp-recorded EEG. Neuroimage 2013; 66: 642-647 of brain response as a direct consequence of an external with permission from Elsevier.63 stimulus. In other words, ERPs are time-locked voltage fluctuations in the EEG signal.57 For example, when 
and occipital-parietal sites. Jensen et al62 observed that repeatedly presenting a visual stimulus, the event will during STM retention tasks the power of the alpha evoke an EEG change. The change that appears in the band [9-12 Hz] improved with increased memory EEG signal after the stimulus is the ERP. One of the load. The results indicated that the alpha peak steadily most highly investigated ERP components in cognitive 
Table 5 - Summary of EEG studies that detected changes in EEG frequency bands during memory tasks.
Study	Cognitive tasks	Memory paradigm	Changes in EEG frequencies	Changes found in brain regions
Kalimesch59	LTM (semantic) retrieval	-	Theta synchronization, upper alpha, de-synchronization	Hippocampo-cortical feedback loops, in thalamo-cortical feedback loops
Jenson and Tesche64	WM (retention process)	Sternberg task	Theta [7-8.5 Hz] increases	Frontal region
Brookes et al65	WM	Sternberg and N-back tasks	Theta power increased and modulated with task difficulty	Medial frontal cortex
Park et al66	Visual STM; memory load and encoding in visual STM	One-shot paradigm	Theta [5-10 Hz], increase power, beta power decreases	Frontal region, parietal-occipital region (O1, O2, Pz, and POz)
Khader et al67	WM maintenance	Delayed matchingto-sample task	Theta power increases, alpha power increase	Mid-frontal (Cz, Fz), parietal-occipital cortex
Jaiswal et al68	Encoding in WM	Spatial memory task	Theta activity increases, alpha higher activity	Right frontal region
Bastiaansen et al69	Memory retrieval	Delayed 2-choice reaction time task	Theta [4-7 Hz] power increase	Left occipital region
Kalimesch59	Memory performance		Alpha de-synchronization	Thalamo-cortical
Harmony et al58	Calculation	Arithmetic task	Alpha [12.48] decrease	Left parietal cortex
	LTM - long-term memory, STM - short-term memory, WM - working memory
 
studies is P300, which normally appears between 300-600ms after stimulus. The P denotes positive amplitude and 300 represents 300ms post-stimulus. Its amplitude is sensitive with stimulus probability. Polich70 reviewed fundamental issues, theoretical overview, and neuropsychological background of P300 in detail. A number of neurocognitive studies have been reported on correlations between ERP and memory,71,72 especially between the P300 component and the memory processes and learning.24,73 Ergen et al72 investigated the P300 response in STM retrieval by a using multiple probe Sternberg task with 2 memory loads comprising 3 and 5 letter memory sets. They found longer reaction times (RTs) due to increasing memory load and shorter RTs for the positive probe compared with negative probes. Furthermore, they also observed an increased latency of P300 with the increased memory load of the 5-letter set, and a shorter latency for the positive probe compared with negative probe. They concluded from the topographic analysis that the right lateralized positivity of 200-250 ms reveals that the memory scanning process and P3 peak with midline parietal topography reflected the decision making process.  
Wisewede et al74 investigated the serial position effect (typically called u-shape curve) with ERP in learning. Results demonstrated frontal region activation for items at the beginning of the list, while parietal brain area was associated with items at the end of list. High amplitudes of P300 were observed for recalled items on primacy position compared to recency at central electrodes (FPz, Cz, Pz). In contrast, Jongsma et al24 studied recall performance with ERP in digit learning tasks. They focused on the middle items of a list for recall as compared with beginning and ending items, and observed positive changes in P300 amplitudes that occurred during learning for middle items in the list due to repetition.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging. The fMRI has become the most important and commonly used method for brain imaging research. It uses MRI and local oxygenation of blood to determine changes in brain activity.75 During any activity in the brain, when neurons become active; they consume more oxygen. Thus, more blood is required to meet the amount of oxygen in that particular brain area. The fMRI measures brain signals based on blood oxygenation changes and is known as BOLD (blood oxygenation level dependent) signal. For more details about fMRI components and data analyses see Poldrack et al,75 as well as Ullsperger and Debener.76 
Numerous fMRI studies have been investigated for different cognitive operations; for example, attention, perception, imagery, language, working, semantic memory, semantic memory encoding, episodic memory retrieval, and procedural memory.77 The fMRI studies have shown a robust relationship between mental processes and activation in areas of the PFC. The PFC has distinctive activation forms for diverse cognitive functions such as sustained attention, smell, insight, written word recognition, spoken, and spatial WM, semantic memory, and episodic memory.78 Manenti et al79 investigated long-term retrieval (episodic memory) in an experiment consisting of 2 phases, encoding and retrieval, using the fMRI. The study suggested that the left dorsolateral PFC might be involved in memory retrieval. Song and Jiang80 used 3 different stimuli (color only, shape only, both color and shape) for visual WM tasks. Their fMRI findings explored the involvement of different brain regions (frontal, parietal, and occipitotemporal) in the tasks. They found that the posterior parietal cortex was sensitive to feature complexity (for example, shapes) and memory load manipulation, while the prefrontal was sensitive to load manipulation only.
Todd et al81 used 2 different categories of stimulus (color and faces) in an fMRI study and investigated visual WM encoding. Figure 3 presents the task trial design for fMRI study using 2 different types of stimulus. They found a significant difference between participants’ encoding time, that is, more information was encoded into visual WM for facial stimuli (presented for 1500ms), while the response time was faster for 
 
Figure 3 - A task designed for fMRI study to investigate visual working memory (VWM) encoding for 2 different types of stimuli: colors and faces. The color stimulus needs 50 ms while facia stimulus requires 500 ms to be fully encoded. Reprinted from Todd JJ, Han SW, Harrison S, Marois R. The neural correlates of visual working memory encoding: a time-resolved fMRI study. Neuropsychologia 2011; 49: 1527-1536 with permission 
of Elsevier.81
 
Figure 4 - Results of EEG during retention interval showing A) EEG retention effects, B) EEG load effects, C) EEG single electrode and single electrode 
effects. Reprinted with permission from Michels L, Bucher K, Lüchinger R, Klaver P, Martin E, Jeanmonod D, et al. Simultaneous EEG-fMRI during a working memory task: modulations in low and high frequency bands. PLoS One 2010; 5: e10298.33
color stimuli. An EEG-fMRI study33 investigated EEG high and low frequency bands using the Sternberg WM task and reported a significant increase in theta (5-7 Hz) power at frontal sites, while alpha 1/2, beta 1 (13-20 Hz), some parts in the beta 2 (20-30 Hz) and gamma bands showed enhanced spectral power in the parieto-occipital region. Figure 4 depicts low and high frequency bands. All frequency bands except alpha 1 showed a positive increase with set size during the retention period (Figure 4B) during the load dependent analysis. During the retention period of the WM task, they examined the association between EEG bands and fMRI BOLD signals and demonstrated that both higher and lower frequencies correlated with BOLD signals. Table 6 presents a summary of fMRI studies in memory processes.
Issues, challenges, and recommendations. In this section, we discuss key issues and challenges that arise in the design and study of memory research and some technical limitations of EEG and fMRI techniques. We will also review various ethical issues that are essential considerations when using EEG and fMRI methods and a few recommendations for future research. Many theoretical, practical, and ethical issues88,89 are cited in the literature on human memory research. Brockmole,90 and Davies and Wright91 described current issues in memory research, especially in visual spatial memory, and applied memory research. In this review, we summarize common issues related to neurocognitive research design. 
Memory categories. As discussed earlier, researchers differentiate memory types (STM, WM, and LTM) according to capacity, retention duration, and speed of processing. In the design of cognitive experiments, memory types are essential in the specification of other experimental parameters as mentioned below. 
Memory modality. In learning and memorization processes, 2 modalities, visual and auditory, play a vital role. The brain processes information received from visual and auditory memory differently, and capacities vary between visual memory and auditory memory.
Targeted brain region. As the brain consists of many parts and lobes depending on respective function (Table 1), in the case of an injured brain, researchers have designed special tasks that target specific areas of the brain. Characteristics of the sample: Samples represent an individual’s participation in the experiment and from whom the data are collected. The characteristics of a sample may be healthy/normal subjects or patients, old or young, adolescent, or children, and male or 
Table 6 - Summary of fMRI studies investigating memory processes.
Study	Stimulus tasks	Memory type	Retention interval	Brain regions	Results	Subjects	Normal or patients	Average age
Donohue 
et al82	3 types of road signs: familiar, novel but 
explained, novel 
not explained	LTM	-	VLPFC,
posterior middle temporal gyrus	Left posterior MTG was more activated for known signs than 
unknown signs. Right VLPFC was more active for novel 
explained signs than for novel unexplained or familiar signs	14	Normal	20-30 mean
= 23.3
Zysset et al83	Sternberg task	LTM 
retrieval	-	Premotor, left prefrontal, left precuneal and parietal regions	No additional area involved with increase of list from short 
to long list	  9	Normal	21-25
Henson et 
al84	Five tasks	Verbal 
STM	-	Posterior temporal regions and dorsolateral premotor cortex	Left posterior temporal areas for verbal item, and left 
supramarginal gyrus for short-
term storage	  6	Normal	22-30 mean
= 27
Ranganath 
et al85	Face detection	WM and episodic 
LTM	WM: 7 second 
delay,
LTM: 5-10 min	PFC	Common regions of 
dorsolateral, ventro-lateral, and 
anterior PFC were all activated 
during both WM and LTM 
tasks	  8	Normal	19-40
Veltman et 
al86	Sternberg, n-back task	Verbal WM	-	Bilateral dorsolateral Sternberg and n-back activated and anterior 	identical regions, but for 
prefrontal, left 	different extents ventro-lateral 
prefrontal, and 
bilateral parietal regions	22	Normal	Mean = 22.7 +-3.6
Campo et 
al87	Verbal and spatial task	LTM 
encoding	2500ms	Medial temporal 	Left MTL activated for verbal 
	lobe	encoding, while right MTL 
activated for spatial task	  8	Normal	24-37, mean = 
29.22
LTM - long-term memory, VLPFC - ventro-lateral prefrontal cortex, MTL - medial temporal lobe, PFC - prefrontal cortex, WM - working memory, 
STM - short-term memory, MTG - middle temporal gyrus
female. These characteristics have roles that determine the experiment’s duration and the complexity of the cognitive tasks. 
Brain mapping technique. Two common methods of recording brain responses are EEG and fMRI as discussed. Both methods have limitations and advantages. To overcome these limitations, simultaneous EEG-fMRI results have been reported in recent studies.92-94
Memory paradigm. As discussed, several memory paradigms exist, even multiple paradigms for the same memory investigations are utilized to present stimuli in an experiment; for example, Sternberg and n-back for WM. As per hypothesized outcome, we must identify the memory paradigm that best reflects a subject’s responses. 
Length of experiment. Subjects may exhibit anxiety while taking part in EEG/fMRI experiments due to a prolonged experimental period. This in turn affects the individual’s attention and interest in the experiment and ultimately affects the desired outcomes. Thus, according to an individual’s health, research objectives, and specified modality, the experiment duration should be fixed. 
Difficulty of cognitive task. In many cognitive studies, complex tasks have been used to investigate memory load and processing speed, but unnecessary complexity in shorter time intervals may lead to missed or unintentional responses by the individual. This is a very critical issue based upon several parameters such as memory type, subject health and age, and the nature of the memory. 
Subjects’ agreement. In neuro-cognitive research, the individual’s consent is an important issue. The experiment should meet regional legal and ethical laws in order to protect the individual’s wellbeing, mental privacy, and self-incrimination.
The EEG signals are multidimensional, nonstationary, and time domain biological signals. Due to the dynamic nature of EEG signals with high temporal resolution and the volume of data sets, automatic compilation of EEG data is a huge challenge, especially with the introduction of high density EEG nets with higher sampling frequencies of 1000 Hz and above.95 Additionally, as the EEG signal consists of a substantial amount of noise and artifacts, and the precise determination of the source is poor, the extraction of information presents a massive challenge. However, many soft computing methods exist for EEG processing,95 but there is no “decent” or “poor” method for EEG analysis. Hence, the selection of technique for EEG processing depends upon the data set and the analytical objective. An elementary issue with EEG is how to approximate the neuronal sources responsible for the recorded distribution of electrical activity at the scalp.96 In other words, this issue is an inverse and ill-posed problematic result of the EEG technique that has no singular solution though many possible solutions exist for any given scalp recording.97 Thus, EEG source estimation requires suppositions as to the nature of the sources. Many strategies are available for solving EEG source localization or the inverse problem; for example, low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA),98 and standardized low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA).99 These strategies are now very common, due to comparisons of source estimation results with neuroimaging techniques, for example, with fMRI, have found substantial overlap. A comparison example of such a study was provided by Mulert et al.94  
Recent developments in EEG recording equipment, and analytical approaches have made it a widespread and potential brain mapping instrument that directly records neuronal activity using acceptable spatial and high temporal resolutions. As a result, signal-source association has improved. A recent study described the limitations and strengths of EEG technology and declared some of the cited drawbacks of EEG; namely, misinterpretation and misunderstanding.100 They concluded that despite these limitations, spatial analysis of the EEG acceptably determines sources for scalp signals. Furthermore, the strong features of EEG; for example, excellent high temporal resolution, plasticity, lower cost, ease of use, and high density EEG reading, render it the dominant technology for brain mapping.
Table 7 - Summary of issues and challenges in EEG and fMRI techniques.
Study	Issues	Modality	Challenges	Recommendation
Pascual-Marqui 
et al98 	Inverse problem	EEG	Estimation of neuronal source	LORETA
Menon and Kim102	Spatial and temporal limits	fMRI	Spatial resolution in millimeters;  temporal resolution in seconds	Single trial task fMRI studies facilitates increased spatial resolution
Poldrack103	Cognitive process issue	fMRI	Reduced subject anxiety in experiment	Anxiety can be reduced via experience with the scanner in a single imaging 
session
Matthews and Jezzard104	Study design issues	fMRI	Time efficiency and event related responses in fMRI	Block design is the most time efficient method to compare brain responses in various states/stages of the experiment
Amaro and Barker101	Study design issues 
(block design, event related), and 
technical limitations 
(spatial, and temporal resolution SNR)	fMRI	Brain coverage must be reduced when temporal resolution is fixed and spatial resolution is 
increased; when brain coverage is maintained and spatial resolution is increased, then 
temporal resolution must be reduced but may 
cause longer experiment time	Select right voxel size as per scanner specification and targeted brain area
Pike105	Indirect measurement of synaptic activity of 
BOLD signal	fMRI	The clarification of the dynamics of cerebral blood flow, blood volume, and metabolism 
of oxygen. The use of BOLD fMRI in stroke 
patients to examine the functional status of brain tissue in the stroke region	The quantitative fMRI method is available, but to adopt and adapt it 
to affect patient care, the method will 
have to be more robust, faster, and 
easier to use
BOLD - blood oxygen level dependent, SNR - signal to noise ratio,  LORETA - low-resolution electromagnetic tomography
 
The fMRI has good spatial resolution (in millimeters) but poor temporal resolution (few seconds). A good understanding of neural function correlates mental processes that require temporal data reliably provided by EEG measures.77 One study reviewed the fMRI study design’s features; for example, cognitive comparison strategies, stimulus presentation (for example, block, event related, self-driven experiment), and technical limitations (for example, signal to noise ratio, spatial, and temporal resolution).101 There is a trade-off between spatial resolution, temporal resolution, and brain coverage in the fMRI method. Thus, it remains a challenge for researchers to make the best use of these parameters in fMRI experiments. Table 7 summarizes issues in EEG and fMRI methods.  
Ethical issues are an important component of brain research. Our thoughts and ideas are highly private and with the continuous and rapid advancement in technology, there may come a time when it will be possible for others to read and understand our thoughts. Although current research requires obtaining consent from subjects, it is possible that future research could be accomplished without a subject’s permission. Macdonald106 raised 2 important ethical questions in brain imaging: who should be able to observe our brain activity, and to what use such information be put? Meegan107 highlighted scientific, ethical, and legal issues in neuroimaging techniques that included rights to privacy and against self-incrimination. Moreover, memory detection techniques still violate legal acceptability. We, therefore, foresee the fact that privacy issues will demand laws for the protection of an individual’s thoughts.
In conclusion, in this article, we have reviewed the active roles of EEG and fMRI technology in human memory research. In particular, this study presented an overview of research on memory retention and recall processes in combination with available memory paradigms. Researchers have used memory paradigms to stimulate different brain regions in cognitive tasks for profound understanding of cortical and deep brain cognitive abilities. Analogous brain activation is reported in both EEG and fMRI studies. For retention and recall processes, frontal-central, frontal, occipital-parietal, prefrontal, hippocampus, bilateral hippocampal, and posterior parietal regions were all activated. We discussed some key issues and challenges in memory research related to EEG and fMRI techniques. We hope this review will provide useful insights for memory researchers.
Acknowledgments. We thank Dr. Nasreen Badruddin, and Dr. Weng-Tink Chooi for their help in organization and review of this manuscript.
References
1.	Eichenbaum H. The Cognitive Neuroscience of Memory: An Introduction. 1st ed. New York (NY): Oxford University Press; 2002.
2.	Osaka N, Logie RH, D’Esposito M, editors. The Cognitive Neuroscience of Working Memory. 1st ed. New York (NY): Oxford University Press; 2007.
3.	Mark DE. Working memory. In: Goldenberg G, Bruce LM, editors. Handbook of Clinical Neurology. Edinburgh (UK): Elsevier; 2008. p. 237-247. 
4.	Shrager Y, Levy DA, Hopkins RO, Squire LR. Working memory and the organization of brain systems. J Neurosci 2008; 28: 
4818-4822.
5.	Baddeley A. Working memory: looking back and looking forward. Nat Rev Neurosci 2003; 4: 829-839. 
6.	Miyake A, Shah P, editors. Models of working memory: Mechanisms of active maintenance and executive control. New York (NY): Cambridge University Press; 1999.
7.	Cowan N. What are the differences between long-term, short-term, and working memory? In: Sossin WS, Lacaille JC, Castellucci VF, Belleville S, editors. Progress in Brain Research: Vol. 169. Essence of Memory. Amsterdam (NL): Elsevier; 2008. p. 323-338.
8.	Engle RW. Working Memory Capacity as Executive Attention. Current Directions in Psychological Science 2002; 11: 19-23.
9.	Chang TW, Kinshuk, Chen NS, Yu PT. The effects of presentation method and information density on visual search ability and working memory load. Computers and Education 2012; 58: 721-731.
10.	Krause JB, Taylor JG, Schmidt D, Hautzel H, Mottaghy FM, Müller-Gärtner HW. Imaging and neural modelling in episodic and working memory processes. Neural Netw 2000; 13: 847-859.
11.	Kompus K, Olsson CJ, Larsson A, Nyberg L. Dynamic switching between semantic and episodic memory systems. Neuropsychologia 2009; 47: 2252-2260.
12.	Tulving E. Episodic memory: from mind to brain. Annu Rev Psychol 2002; 53: 1-25.
13.	Battaglia FP, Benchenane K, Sirota A, Pennartz CM, Wiener SI. The hippocampus: hub of brain network communication for memory. Trends Cogn Sci 2011; 15: 310-318.
14.	Kryukov VI. The role of the hippocampus in long-term memory: is it memory store or comparator? J Integr Neurosci 2008; 7: 117-184.
15.	Parker AE, Wilding EL, Bussey T, editors. The cognitive neuroscience of memory: encoding and retrieval. New York (NY): Psychology Press; 2002.
16.	Karpicke JD, III Roediger HL. Repeated retrieval during learning is the key to long-term retention. Journal of Memory and Language 2007; 57: 151-162.
17.	Sharot T, Phelps E. How arousal modulates memory: Disentangling the effects of attention and retention. Cognitive, Affective, & Behavioral Neuroscience 2004; 4: 294-306. 
18.	LaBar KS, Cabeza R. Cognitive neuroscience of emotional memory. Nat Rev Neurosci 2006; 7: 54-64.  
19.	Carter R, Aldridge S, Page M, Parker S. The Human Brain Book. London (UK): Dorling Kindersley Publisher; 2009.
20.	Babiloni C, Babiloni F, Carducci F, Cappa SF, Cincotti F, Del Percio C, et al. Human cortical responses during one-bit short-term memory. A high-resolution EEG study on delayed choice reaction time tasks. Clin Neurophysiol 2004; 115: 161-170. 
21.	Babiloni C, Babiloni F, Carducci F, Cappa S, Cincotti F, Del Percio C, et al. Human cortical EEG rhythms during long-term episodic memory task. A high-resolution EEG study of the HERA model. Neuroimage 2004; 21: 1576-1584.
22.	Burgess AP, Gruzelier JH. Short duration power changes in the EEG during recognition memory for words and faces. Psychophysiology 2000; 37: 596-606.
23.	Kirov R, Weiss C, Siebner HR, Born J, Marshall L. Slow oscillation electrical brain stimulation during waking promotes EEG theta activity and memory encoding. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2009; 106: 15460-15465.  
24.	Jongsma ML, Gerrits NJ, van Rijn CM, Quiroga RQ, Maes JH. Event related potentials to digit learning: tracking neurophysiologic changes accompanying recall performance. Int J Psychophysiol 2012; 85: 41-48. 
25.	Roediger HL 3rd, Butler AC. The critical role of retrieval practice in long-term retention. Trends Cogn Sci 2011; 15: 20-27. 
26.	Karpicke JD, Roediger HL 3rd. The critical importance of retrieval for learning. Science 2008; 319: 966-968. 
27.	Marois R, Ivanoff J. Capacity limits of information processing in the brain. Trends Cogn Sci 2005; 9: 296-305. 
28.	Diamantopoulou S, Poom L, Klaver P, Talsma D. Visual working memory capacity and stimulus categories: a behavioral and electrophysiological investigation. Exp Brain Res 2011; 209: 501-513. 
29.	Karlsgodt KH, Shirinyan D, van Erp TG, Cohen MS, Cannon TD. Hippocampal activations during encoding and retrieval in a verbal working memory paradigm. Neuroimage 2005; 25: 1224-1231. 
30.	Bankó EM, Vidnyánszky Z. Retention interval affects visual short-term memory encoding. J Neurophysiol 2010; 103: 14251430.  
31.	Joiner WM, Smith MA. Long-term retention explained by a model of short-term learning in the adaptive control of reaching. J Neurophysiol 2008; 100: 2948-2955.
32.	Crottaz-Herbette S, Anagnoson RT, Menon V. Modality effects in verbal working memory: differential prefrontal and parietal responses to auditory and visual stimuli. Neuroimage 2004; 21: 340-351. 
33.	Michels L, Bucher K, Lüchinger R, Klaver P, Martin E, Jeanmonod D, et al. Simultaneous EEG-fMRI during a working memory task: modulations in low and high frequency bands. PLoS One 2010; 5: e10298. 
34.	Khairudin R, Givi MV, Wan Shahrazad WS, Nasir R, Halim FW. Effects of Emotional Contents on Explicit Memory Process. Pertanika Journal of Social Sciences & Humanities 2011; 19: 17.
35.	Grady CL, McIntosh AR, Beig S, Craik FI. An examination of the effects of stimulus type, encoding task, and functional connectivity on the role of right prefrontal cortex in recognition memory. Neuroimage 2001; 14: 556-571. 
36.	Lee AC, Robbins TW, Pickard JD, Owen AM. Asymmetric frontal activation during episodic memory: the effects of stimulus type on encoding and retrieval. Neuropsychologia 2000; 38: 677-692. 
37.	Maass A, Kollhorster K, Riediger A, MacDonald V, Lohaus A. Effects of violent and non-violent computer game content on memory performance in adolescents. European Journal of Psychology of Education 2011; 26: 339-353. 
38.	Eng HY, Chen D, Jiang Y. Visual working memory for simple and complex visual stimuli. Psychon Bull Rev 2005; 12: 1127-1133. 
39.	Grady CL, McIntosh AR, Beig S, Craik FI. An examination of the effects of stimulus type, encoding task, and functional connectivity on the role of right prefrontal cortex in recognition memory. Neuroimage 2001; 14: 556-571. 
40.	Duarte A, Henson RN, Graham KS. Stimulus content and the neural correlates of source memory. Brain Res 2011; 1373: 110-123.  
41.	Velisavljević L, Elder JH. Visual short-term memory of local information in briefly viewed natural scenes: configural and non-configural factors. J Vis 2008; 8: 8. 
42.	van der Ham IJ, van Wezel RJ, Oleksiak A, van Zandvoort MJ, Frijns CJ, Kappelle LJ, et al. The effect of stimulus features on working memory of categorical and coordinate spatial relations in patients with unilateral brain damage. Cortex 2012; 48: 737-745.
43.	Testa SM, Ward J, Crone NE, Brandt J. Stimulus type affects Wada memory performance. Epilepsy Behav 2008; 13: 458-462. 
44.	Prince SE, Dennis NA, Cabeza R. Encoding and retrieving faces and places: distinguishing process- and stimulus-specific differences in brain activity. Neuropsychologia 2009; 47: 2282-2289. 
45.	Levens SM, Phelps EA. Emotion processing effects on interference resolution in working memory. Emotion 2008; 8: 267-280. 
46.	Berti S, Schröger E. A comparison of auditory and visual distraction effects: behavioral and event-related indices. Brain Res Cogn Brain Res 2001; 10: 265-273. 
47.	Freunberger R, Werkle-Bergner M, Griesmayr B, Lindenberger U, Klimesch W. Brain oscillatory correlates of working memory constraints. Brain Res 2011; 1375: 93-102.  
48.	Lyons-Warren A, Lillie R, Hershey T. Short- and long-term spatial delayed response performance across the lifespan. Dev Neuropsychol 2004; 26: 661-678. 
49.	Raphael G. Assessment of Working Memory Performance in Self-Ordered Selection Tests. Cortex 2007; 43: 1047-1056. 
50.	Bunting M, Cowan N, Saults JS. How does running memory span work? Q J Exp Psychol (Hove) 2006; 59: 1691-1700.  
51.	Tombaugh TN. A comprehensive review of the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT). Arch Clin Neuropsychol 2006; 21: 53-76. 
52.	Jaeggi SM, Studer-Luethi B, Buschkuehl M, Su YF, Jonides J, Perrig WJ. The relationship between n-back performance and matrix reasoning - implications for training and transfer. Intelligence 2010; 38: 625-635. 
53.	Conway AR, Kane MJ, Bunting MF, Hambrick DZ, Wilhelm O, Engle RW. Working memory span tasks: A methodological review and user’s guide. Psychon Bull Rev 2005; 12: 769-786. 
54.	Vock M, Holling H. The measurement of visuo-spatial and verbal-numerical working memory: Development of IRT-based scales. Intelligence 2007; 36: 161-182. 
55.	Kessels RP, van Zandvoort MJ, Postma A, Kappelle LJ, de Haan EH. The Corsi Block-Tapping Task: standardization and normative data. Appl Neuropsychol 2000; 7: 252-258.
56.	Halder S, Rea M, Andreoni R, Nijboer F, Hammer EM, Kleih SC, et al. An auditory oddball brain-computer interface for binary choices. Clin Neurophysiol 2010; 121: 516-523. 
57.	Tong S, Thakor NV. Quantitative EEG analysis: methods and clinical applications. Boston (MA): Artech House; 2009.
58.	Harmony T, Fernández T, Silva J, Bosch J, Valdés P, FernándezBouzas A, et al. Do specific EEG frequencies indicate different processes during mental calculation? Neurosci Lett 1999; 266: 25-28.  
59.	Klimesch W. EEG alpha and theta oscillations reflect cognitive and memory performance: a review and analysis. Brain Res Brain Res Rev 1999; 29: 169-195. 
60.	Grunwald M, Weiss T, Krause W, Beyer L, Rost R, Gutberlet I, et al. Power of theta waves in the EEG of human subjects increases during recall of haptic information. Neurosci Lett 1999; 260: 189-192. 
61.	Wilson GF, Swain CR, Ullsperger P. EEG power changes during a multiple level memory retention task. Int J Psychophysiol 1999; 32: 107-118. 
62.	Jensen O, Gelfand J, Kounios J, Lisman JE. Oscillations in the alpha band (9-12 Hz) increase with memory load during retention in a short-term memory task. Cereb Cortex 2002; 12: 877-882. 
63.	Friese U, Köster M, Hassler U, Martens U, Trujillo-Barreto N, Gruber T. Successful memory encoding is associated with increased cross-frequency coupling between frontal theta and posterior gamma oscillations in human scalp-recorded EEG. Neuroimage 2012; 66: 642-647. 
64.	Jensen O, Tesche CD. Frontal theta activity in humans increases with memory load in a working memory task. Eur J Neurosci 2002; 15: 1395-1399. 
65.	Brookes MJ, Wood JR, Stevenson CM, Zumer JM, White TP, Liddle PF, et al. Changes in brain network activity during working memory tasks: a magnetoencephalography study. Neuroimage 2011; 55: 1804-1815. 
66.	Park HD, Min BK, Lee KM. EEG oscillations reflect visual short-term memory processes for the change detection in human faces. Neuroimage 2010; 53: 629-637. 
67.	Khader PH, Jost K, Ranganath C, Rösler F. Theta and alpha oscillations during working-memory maintenance predict successful long-term memory encoding. Neurosci Lett 2010; 468: 339-343. 
68.	Jaiswal N, Ray W, Slobounov S. Encoding of visual-spatial information in working memory requires more cerebral efforts than retrieval: Evidence from an EEG and virtual reality study. Brain Res 2010; 1347: 80-89. 
69.	Bastiaansen MC, Oostenveld R, Jensen O, Hagoort P. I see what you mean: theta power increases are involved in the retrieval of lexical semantic information. Brain Lang 2008; 106: 15-28.
70.	Polich J. Updating P300: an integrative theory of P3a and P3b. Clin Neurophysiol 2007; 118: 2128-2148. 
71.	Wolk DA, Schacter DL, Lygizos M, Sen NM, Holcomb PJ, Daffner KR, et al. ERP correlates of recognition memory: effects of retention interval and false alarms. Brain Res 2006; 1096: 148-162. 
72.	Ergen M, Yildirim E, Uslu A, Gürvit H, Demiralp T. P3 response during short-term memory retrieval revisited by a spatio-temporal analysis. Int J Psychophysiol 2012; 84: 205-210. 
73.	Friedman D, Johnson R Jr. Event-related potential (ERP) studies of memory encoding and retrieval: a selective review. Microsc Res Tech 2000; 51: 6-28. 
74.	Wiswede D, Rüsseler J, Münte TF. Serial position effects in free memory recall--An ERP-study. Biol Psychol 2007; 75: 185-193. 
75.	Poldrack RA, Mumford JA, Nichols TE. Handbook of functional MRI data analysis. New York (NY): Cambridge University Press; 2011. 
76.	Ullsperger M, Debener S, editors. Simultaneous EEG and fMRI: Recording, Analysis, and Application. New York (NY): Oxford University Press; 2010.
77.	Cabeza R, Nyberg L. Imaging cognition II: An empirical review of 275 PET and fMRI studies. J Cogn Neurosci 2000; 12: 1-47. 
78.	Nyberg L, Marklund P, Persson J, Cabeza R, Forkstam C, Petersson KM, et al. Common prefrontal activations during working memory, episodic memory, and semantic memory. Neuropsychologia 2003; 41: 371-377. 
79.	Manenti R, Cotelli M, Calabria M, Maioli C, Miniussi C. The role of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in retrieval from long-term memory depends on strategies: a repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation study. Neuroscience 2010; 166: 501-507. 
80.	Song JH, Jiang Y. Visual working memory for simple and complex features: an fMRI study. Neuroimage 2006; 30: 963-972. 
81.	Todd JJ, Han SW, Harrison S, Marois R. The neural correlates of visual working memory encoding: a time-resolved fMRI study. Neuropsychologia 2011; 49: 1527-1536.  
82.	Donohue SE, Wendelken C, Crone EA, Bunge SA. Retrieving rules for behavior from long-term memory. Neuroimage 2005; 26: 1140-1149. 
83.	Zysset S, Müller K, Lehmann C, Thöne-Otto AI, von Cramon DY. Retrieval of long and short lists from long term memory: a functional magnetic resonance imaging study with human subjects. Neurosci Lett 2001; 314: 1-4. 
84.	Henson RN, Burgess N, Frith CD. Recoding, storage, rehearsal and grouping in verbal short-term memory: an fMRI study. Neuropsychologia 2000; 38: 426-440. 
85.	Ranganath C, Johnson MK, D’Esposito M. Prefrontal activity associated with working memory and episodic long-term memory. Neuropsychologia 2003; 41: 378-389. 
86.	Veltman DJ, Rombouts SA, Dolan RJ. Maintenance versus manipulation in verbal working memory revisited: an fMRI study. Neuroimage 2003; 18: 247-256. 
87.	Campo P, Maestú F, Ortiz T, Capilla A, Fernández S, Fernández A. Is medial temporal lobe activation specific for encoding long-term memories? Neuroimage 2005; 25: 34-42. 
88.	Banyard P, Flanagan C. Ethical Issues and Guidelines In Psychology. London (UK): Routledge; 2006.
89.	Amin H, Malik AS, Badruddin N, Weng-Tink C. Brain Activation During Cognitive tasks: An Overview of EEG and fMRI Studies. 2012 IEEE-EMBS Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Sciences; 2012 Dec 17-19; Langkawi, Malaysia. IEEE; 2012.
90.	Brockmole JR, editor. The Visual World in Memory. Hove (UK): Psychology Press; 2009.
91.	Davies G, Wright DB. Current Issues in Applied Memory Research. Hove (UK): Psychology Press; 2010.
92.	Michels L, Bucher K, Lüchinger R, Martin E, Jeanmonod D, Brandeis D. Simultaneous EEG-fMRI during a working memory task: Distinct modulations of lower and higher EEG frequencies. Neuroimage 2009; 47 Supplement 1: S166. 
93.	Strobbe G, Santens S, van Mierlo P, Hallez H, Van Opstal F, Rosseel Y, et al. Comparison of fMRI activation and EEG source localization using beamformers during motor response in the Stroop task: Preliminary results. Proceedings of the 2011 8th International Symposium on Noninvasive Functional Source Imaging of the Brain and Heart and the 2011 8th International Conference on Bioelectromagnetism. 2011 May 13-16; Banff, Canada. NFSI & ICBEM; 2011. p. 98-102.
94.	Mulert C, Jäger L, Schmitt R, Bussfeld P, Pogarell O, Möller HJ, et al. Integration of fMRI and simultaneous EEG: towards a comprehensive understanding of localization and time-course of brain activity in target detection. Neuroimage 2004; 22: 83-94. 
95.	Kaushik M. Human scalp EEG processing: Various soft computing approaches. Applied Soft Computing 2011; 11: 4433-4447. 
96.	Mulert C, Lemieux L. EEG-fMRI: Physiological Basis, Technique and Applications. Berlin (DE): Springer; 2010.
97.	von Helmholtz HLF. Some laws concerning the distribution of electric currents in volume conductors with applications to experiments on animal electricity. Proceedings of the IEEE 2004; 92: 868-870. 
98.	Pascual-Marqui RD, Esslen M, Kochi K, Lehmann D. Functional imaging with low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA): review, new comparisons, and new validation. Japanese Journal of Clinical Neurophysiology 2002; 30: 81-94.
99.	Pascual-Marqui RD. Standardized low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA): technical details. Methods Find Exp Clin Pharmacol 2002; 24 Suppl D: 5-12. 
100.	Michel CM, Murray MM. Towards the utilization of EEG as a brain imaging tool. Neuroimage 2012; 61: 371-385. 
101.	Amaro E Jr, Barker GJ. Study design in fMRI: basic principles. 
Related articles
Al-Kadri HM. Improving inventory learning style. Neurosciences 2008; 13: 426-429.
Rao MK, Rao MS, Rao GS. Treatment with Centalla asiatica (Linn) fresh leaf extract enhances learning ability and memory retention power in rats. Neurosciences 2007; 12: 236-241.
El Sheikh RI. Memory and cognitive training of schizophrenics. Neurosciences 2001; 6: 149-155.
Brain Cogn 2006; 60: 220-232. 
102.	Menon RS, Kim SG. Spatial and temporal limits in cognitive neuroimaging with fMRI. Trends Cogn Sci 1999; 3: 207-216. 
103.	Poldrack RA. Imaging brain plasticity: conceptual and methodological issues--a theoretical review. Neuroimage 2000; 12: 1-13. 
104.	Matthews PM, Jezzard P. Functional magnetic resonance imaging. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2004; 75: 6-12. 
105.	Pike GB. Quantitative functional MRI: concepts, issues and future challenges. Neuroimage 2012; 62: 1234-1240. 
106.	Macdonald M. Some ethical issues in brain imaging. Cortex 2011; 47: 1272-1274. 
107.	Meegan DV. Neuroimaging techniques for memory detection: scientific, ethical, and legal issues. Am J Bioeth 2008; 8: 9-20.
Children with autism have broad memory difficulties, Stanford Medicine-led study finds
By Erin Digitale
Memory impairment in autism goes beyond poor facial recognition, a Stanford Medicine team showed. The finding suggests a wide role for memory in the neurobiology of the disorder.
FacebookLinkedInTwitterEmail
Children with autism have memory challenges that hinder not only their memory for faces but also their ability to remember other kinds of information, according to new research from the Stanford School of Medicine. These impairments are reflected in distinct wiring patterns in the children's brains, the study found.
The research, which was published July 10 in Biological Psychiatry: Cognitive Neuroscience and Neuroimaging, clarifies a debate about memory function in kids with autism, showing that their memory struggles surpass their ability to form social memories. The finding should prompt broader thinking about autism in children and about treatment of the developmental disorder, according to the scientists who conducted the study.
"Many high-functioning kids with autism go to mainstream schools and receive the same instruction as other kids," said lead author Jin Liu, PhD, a postdoctoral scholar in psychiatry and behavioral sciences. Memory is a key predictor of academic success, said Liu, adding that memory challenges may put kids with autism at a disadvantage in school.
The study's findings also raise a philosophical debate about the neural origins of autism, the researchers said. Social challenges are recognized as a core feature of autism, but it's possible that memory impairments might significantly contribute to the ability to engage socially.
"Social cognition can not occur without reliable memory," said senior author Vinod Menon, PhD, the Rachael L. and Walter F. Nichols, MD, Professor and a professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences.
"Social behaviors are complex, and they involve multiple brain processes, including associatingfaces and voices to particular contexts, which require robust episodic memory," Menon said. "Impairments in forming these associative memory traces could form one of the foundational elements in autism."
Comprehensive memory tests
Autism, which affects about one in every 36 kids, is characterized by social impairments and restricted, repetitive behaviors. The condition exists on a wide spectrum. The most severely affected individuals cannot speak or care for themselves, and about one-third of people with autism have intellectual impairments. On the other end of the spectrum, many people with high-functioning autism have normal or high IQ, complete higher education and work in a variety of fields.
Research has shown that children with autism have difficulty remembering faces. Some research has also suggested that children with autism have broader memory difficulties, but these studies were small and did not thoroughly assess participants' memory abilities. They included children with wide ranges of age and IQ, both of which influence memory.
To clarify the impact of autism on memory, the new study included 25 children with high-functioning autism and normal IQ who were 8 to 12 years old, and a control group of 29 typically developing children with similar ages and IQs.
 Vinod Menon
All participants completed a comprehensive evaluation of their memory skills, including their ability to remember faces; written material; and non-social photographs, or photos without any people. The scientists tested participants' ability to accurately recognize information (identifying whether they had seen an image or heard a word before) and recall it (describing or reproducing details of information they had seen or heard before). The researchers tested participants' memory after delays of varying lengths. All participants also received functional magnetic resonance imaging scans of their brains to evaluate how regions known to be involved inmemory are connected to each other.
Distinct brain networks drive memory challenges
In line with prior research, children with autism had more difficulty remembering faces than typically developing children, the study found.
The research showed they also struggled to recall non-social information. On tests about sentences they read and non-social photos they viewed, their scores for immediate and delayed verbal recall, immediate visual recall and delayed verbal recognition were lower.
"We thought that behavioral differences might be weak because the study participants with autism had fairly high IQ, comparable to typically developing participants, but we still observed very obvious general memory impairments in this group," Liu said.
Among typically developing children, memory skills were consistent: If a child had good memory for faces, he or she was also good at remembering non-social information.
This wasn't the case in autism. "Among children with autism, some kids seem to have both impairments and some have more severe impairment in one area of memory or the other," Liu said.  
The researchers had not expected this.
"It was a surprising finding that these two dimensions of memory are both dysfunctional, in ways that seem to be unrelated - and that maps onto our analysis of the brain circuitry," Menon said.
The findings suggest that general and face-memory challenges have two underlying sources in the brain which contribute to a broader profile of memory impairments in autism.
The brain scans showed that, among the children with autism, distinct brain networks drive different types of memory difficulty.
For children with autism, the ability to retain non-social memories was predicted by connections in a network centered on the hippocampus - a small structure deep inside the brain that is known to regulate memory. But face memory in kids with autism was predicted by a separate set of connections centered on the posterior cingulate cortex, a key region of the brain's default mode network, which has roles in social cognition and distinguishing oneself from other people.
"The findings suggest that general and face-memory challenges have two underlying sources in the brain which contribute to a broader profile of memory impairments in autism," Menon said.
In both networks, the brains of children with autism showed over-connected circuits relative to typically developing children. Over-connectivity - likely due to too little selective pruning of neural circuits - has been found in other studies of brain networks in children with autism.
New autism therapies should account for the breadth of memory difficulties the research uncovered, as well as how these challenges affect social skills, Menon said. "This is important for functioning in the real world and for academic settings."
Other Stanford authors included research scientist Hyesang Chang, former postdoctoral fellow Lang Chen, research assistants Jeremy Rudoler, Ahmad Belal Al-Zughoul, and Julia BoramKang, and Clinical Associate Professor Daniel Abrams.
The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health (grants HD059205, MH084164, HD094623 and MH121069) and by the Stanford Maternal and Child Health Research Institute.

XXXXXX School
A Quick Guide to Working Memory

What is Working Memory?  
Working memory is an executive function that allows us to hold information in mind whilst working with it. It is like a mental jotting pad or workspace. For example, following a set of verbal instructions, recalling the mental calculation 24 x15. Working memory is critical in the process of storing information in long-term memory. It is also critical in retrieving previously learned information from memory. In fact, most of the ‘work’ in the memory system occurs in ‘working’ memory where information is managed, manipulated, and transformed.    Working memory capacity differs from individual to individual. Students with working memory difficulties can hold fewer pieces of discrete information in their mind at any given moment. They hear what you said, or see what is presented, but as more information overwhelms their memory system, they lose previous information needed to successfully complete the task. Once information is lost it is not likely to be retrieved.   
Implications for a pupil
Pupils with working memory difficulties may present with the following:
-	Normal social relationships with peers.
-	Reserved in group activities.
-	Poor academic progress.
-	Difficulties in following instructions.
-	Appears to be inattentive, to have short attention span and to be distractible.
-	Copies from peers.
-	Has difficulties remembering facts and procedures.
-	Exhibits slow retrieval of information.
-	Demonstrates poor attention to detail, such as beginning to write a sentence and then struggling to remember all the words in the sentence, skipping words within sentences, and writing shorter sentences (to reduce demands on working memory).
-	Makes place-keeping errors such as losing track of steps completed or steps yet to be completed and either repeats steps needlessly or constantly must start over.
-	Have difficulty starting and completing work.
How to help – top tips
Verbal and non-verbal information are processed by different pathways – a student can therefore be strong in one and weak in the other which can make it possible to provide compensatory strategies which align to the students strength e.g. having information presented in the form of models and images – if weakness is with processing verbal information, or vice versa if they struggle to process information which is presented visually.
1.	Identify heavy loads caused by lengthy sequences and demanding mental processing activities.
2.	Reduce material to be remembered.
3.	Increase meaningfulness and familiarity of material.
4.	Restructure complex tasks. Teach step by step. Teach one strategy at a time in brief, focused sessions.
5.	Repeat important information (in different ways).
6.	Encourage use of memory aids e.g., personalised dictionaries, multiplication grids, mnemonics, diagrams/illustrations, colour coding and highlighting.
7.	Use visual, auditory, and kinaesthetic activities and cues.
8.	Provide help sheet/top tips with simplified written guidance.
9.	Display key vocabulary or information
10.	Encourage self-monitoring through visual task boards or lists to highlight what needs to be remembered.
11.	Connect notions together e.g., mind map or put information into a sentence to be remembered.
12.	Chunk information e.g., BBCITVGMT can be remembered more easily as 3 chunks than a list of 9 letters.
13.	Opportunities to practice skills in different contexts.
Further advice and support
Training:
Memory Training & resources
Global Search | Leeds for Learning

Reading: 
Understanding Working Memory, a classroom guide by Gathercole & Alloway. 
https://www.specialneedsjungle.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/WM-classroom-guide.pdf 

Short Term Auditory Memory Activities, which can be used to develop provision. 
Ready Set Remember: Short-Term Auditory Memory Activities (peirsoncenter.com)
The Power of Play: Strategies for Enhancing Development in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders
Felix-Constantin Adochiei 1,2,3, Simona-Narcisa Arghir 1,2, Ioana Raluca Adochiei 2,3,4,*, Florin Ciprian Argatu 1, George Calin Seritan 1, Bogdan Alexandrescu 5
Editor: Marco Iosa
•	Author information
•	Article notes
•	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC11511471  PMID: 39460200
Abstract
The increasing prevalence of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) underscores its significant impact on individuals and the importance of early intervention. ASD affects various aspects of life, including education, emotional development, and social interactions. Besides traditional therapeutic approaches, a novel strategy incorporating digital games has been introduced. Four games developed using Makey Makey and Scratch aim to enhance cognitive skills in children with ASD. This approach facilitates emotional and intellectual development, tracks progress, and offers personalized and engaging interventions. This study demonstrated significant improvements in memory and concentration among participants, with an average improvement of 23.38 points. The most notable enhancements were observed in children aged 10, who showed an average improvement of 25.67 points. Additionally, female participants exhibited a slightly higher average improvement compared to males. The Memory Maze game also effectively enhanced cognitive skills in children with different types of ADHD. Children with the Hyperactive–Impulsive type showed the highest average improvement, with 25.00 points, followed by those with the Combined type, with 24.15 points, and the Inattentive type, with 23.53 points. These findings highlight the potential use of these tools in both ASD and ADHD therapy, providing a structured and enjoyable learning environment that supports cognitive development and therapeutic outcomes.
Keywords: autism, Makey Makey, Scratch, therapeutic strategy, emotional development
1. Introduction
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a prevalent neurodevelopmental condition characterized by deficits in social communication and interaction, along with restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities [1]. The global prevalence of ASD is estimated to be approximately 1 in 100 children, though this figure varies due to differences in diagnostic practices and awareness across regions [2].
A significant study from 2016 highlighted the notably high identification rate of autism in Romania, with 14.3% of children having been diagnosed [3]. This finding has played a crucial role in raising awareness, influencing national health policies, and driving improvements in education and support services for children with ASD.
This underscores the necessity for increased awareness and adaptation of health, educational, and social resources to better meet the needs of individuals with ASD. By tailoring resources to accommodate the growing number of diagnosed cases, policymakers and educators can offer more effective support systems and interventions for affected children and their families.
The etiology of ASD involves complex interactions between genetic and environmental factors. Recent research highlights that prenatal stress, birth complications, and maternal health conditions significantly contribute to abnormal neurological development, potentially leading to ASD [4]. Genetic studies have identified numerous susceptibility genes, revealing a heritable component to the disorder [5]. Moreover, a study conducted by Yale University in 2023 identified two distinct developmental pathways to autism, suggesting that gene mutations associated with the disorder can lead to different neurodevelopmental outcomes [6]. This emphasizes the complexity of ASD and the need for a nuanced understanding of its genetic underpinnings.
The symptoms of autism are diverse, ranging from delayed speech and limited eye contact to repetitive behaviors and difficulties in social interactions. Clinical diagnosis typically occurs in early childhood, often before age three, based on developmental assessments and behavioral observations [7]. Early intervention is critical, as it can significantly influence the developmental trajectory and improve long-term outcomes for children with ASD [8]. Evidence-based interventions, such as Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA), speech therapy, and occupational therapy, have enhanced communication skills, social skills, and adaptive behaviors [9]. These interventions underscore the necessity of early, intensive, and individualized therapeutic strategies to address the unique challenges faced by individuals with ASD.
This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of the Memory Maze game in improving memory and concentration among children with ASD. This research uses a randomized control trial with 60 participants and explores how ADHD comorbidities may influence the results of the intervention.
2. The State of the Art
Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) commonly experience challenges in four primary domains: social skills, emotional regulation, attention control, and cognitive abilities (Figure 1) [1]. These difficulties can significantly impact their ability to function effectively in social settings, maintain concentration, and engage in learning activities over extended periods.
Figure 1.
 
Open in a new tab
Common challenges in ASD.
Current therapeutic approaches aim to alleviate symptoms and improve quality of life for individuals with ASD rather than seek a cure. Personalized therapy plans, tailored to the specific needs of each child, are essential given the wide variability in ASD manifestations. Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) is a cornerstone of behavioral intervention, utilizing reinforcement strategies to enhance socially significant behaviors through systematic and individualized methods [6]. Other effective interventions include speech therapy, which addresses communication deficits; cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which helps manage anxiety and improve emotional regulation; and social skills training, which enhances interaction capabilities [7]. Occupational therapy, developmental play therapy, and floortime therapy also support the development of sensory processing, motor skills, and emotional connections [8].
Recent advancements have integrated digital and electronic applications into therapeutic practices, providing innovative solutions for managing ADHD and ASD symptoms. For example, Akili Interactive’s EndeavorRx, the first video game approved by the FDA for ADHD treatment, has led to improvements in attention and impulse control, suggesting potential applications for ASD [9]. Cogmed Working Memory Training and Play Attention utilize cognitive training and neurofeedback techniques to enhance attention and working memory in children with ADHD, indicating a promising overlap in therapeutic strategies for ASD and ADHD [10,11]. Neurofeedback Therapy and BrainTrain software (2020.2) offer personalized cognitive training aimed at improving executive functions, while MediTrain, a digital meditation application, enhances attention and impulse control [12,13,14]. Comprehensive platforms such as ADHD 365, Lumosity, MyADHD, and GoNoodle integrate educational, cognitive, and mindfulness activities, supporting holistic development and emotional regulation [15,16,17,18].
Moreover, recent studies have shown that virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) applications are practical in enhancing social skills and emotional regulation in children with ASD. For instance, a study by Dechsling et al. (2021) demonstrated that VR-based naturalistic developmental behavioral interventions significantly improved joint attention and social interactions in children with ASD [19]. Similarly, Ip et al. (2018) found that a VR-enabled approach enhanced emotional and social adaptation skills in children with ASD [20]. These findings suggest that integrating advanced technological tools with traditional therapeutic methods can provide a more comprehensive approach to ASD treatment.
Differentiating between types of autism is also crucial for the tailoring of effective interventions. Research has identified several subtypes of autism, each with unique behavioral and developmental profiles. Recognizing these distinctions allows for more precise therapeutic strategies, addressing specific needs and optimizing outcomes for each individual. This differentiation underscores the complexity of ASD and the importance of personalized, evidence-based treatment approaches.
In addition to traditional approaches, we propose a novel therapeutic strategy incorporating digital games: an integrated platform with four games developed using Makey Makey and Scratch to enhance cognitive skills in children with ASD. This approach facilitates emotional and intellectual development, tracks progress, and offers personalized, engaging interventions. Preliminary results have demonstrated significant improvements in memory and concentration skills among participants, highlighting the potential of these tools in ASD therapy.
The integration of these technological advancements with traditional therapeutic approaches provides a multifaceted strategy to support individuals with ASD, facilitating their participation in daily activities and improving their overall quality of life. Establishing personalized learning objectives and employing effective teaching strategies remain central to these interventions, which highlight the importance of individualized, evidence-based approaches in ASD treatment.
In line with the framework proposed by Moreno et al. (2023) for accessible software design [21], we are actively adapting the Memory Maze game to ensure it meets the specific needs of children with autism. Our focus on user adaptability and accessibility is reflected in the game’s ability to adjust to different cognitive abilities and autism profiles. These principles of accessibility are integral to the game’s design, ensuring that it is a practical and effective tool for children with ASD.
Also, in line with the principles outlined by Moreno et al. (2022) on Human-Centered Design (HCD) [22] for users with autism, we have begun integrating personalization features into the Memory Maze game, targeting specific types of autism and cognitive challenges. While the current version of the game has been developed based on input from therapists and educators, future iterations will more formally incorporate HCD techniques such as user research, prototyping, and iterative testing to better align with the individual needs and capabilities of children with different types of ASD. We acknowledge the importance of continuously improving the game design process and will seek to further apply HCD principles in future developments.
3. Materials and Methods
To address the needs of autistic children, a sophisticated system leveraging the v1.6 Makey Makey development kit, manufactured by JoyLabz, located in Santa Cruz, CA, USA, and 3.0 Scratch programming language, developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Media Lab, located in Cambridge, MA, USA, was devised to enhance attention and fine motor skills. This innovative system utilizes electronic components that connect to various everyday or specialized objects, transforming them into touch-sensitive input devices. The system’s core is the Makey Makey kit (Figure 2), which operates on Arduino Leonardo Rev3 firmware and communicates with computers via the Human Interface Device (HID) protocol, ensuring seamless integration across various applications [23].
Figure 2.
 
Open in a new tab
Makey Makey kit components.
The system’s architecture allows conductive materials—such as fruits, play dough, or pencil drawings—to be linked to dedicated pins and connection cables equipped with alligator clips. When these materials are touched, the circuit completes, and the microcontroller interprets the input as a keyboard key press or mouse click. This setup promotes hands-on learning and the development of fine motor skills, offering a versatile platform for customized educational experiences. The critical components of the Makey Makey system include the main circuit board, a USB connector for interfacing with a computer, and connection cables that integrate various conductive objects, creating a personalized and immersive learning environment for children with autism.
Scratch was selected for developing interactive and engaging educational tools for autistic children due to its user-friendly visual programming language, developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), located in Cambridge, MA, USA. Scratch empowers users to create interactive stories, animations, games, and simulations [24]. Its drag-and-drop interface with coding blocks allows users to build and customize projects without prior programming experience. Scratch fosters creativity and logical thinking by enabling users to experiment with different programming concepts playfully and intuitively [25].
When integrated with Scratch (Figure 3), Makey Makey, opens up new possibilities for interactive projects. Scratch provides extensions explicitly designed for Makey Makey, enabling users to incorporate physical interactions into their digital creations. The combined use of Makey Makey and Scratch offers therapeutic benefits, such as fine motor skill refinement, creativity enhancement, and cognitive ability improvement.
Figure 3.
 
Open in a new tab
Scratch—coding environment.
Conductive materials like aluminum foil, conductive paints, and everyday objects such as fruits and play dough were employed for practical implementation. These materials were chosen for their ability to conduct electricity and their accessibility in educational settings. Connection cables with alligator clips were used to link these materials to the Makey Makey board, creating a flexible and adaptable input system. This setup supports the development of fine motor skills and provides a tangible and engaging way for children to interact with educational content.
Scratch, the visual programming language developed by MIT, located in Cambridge, MA, USA, was utilized to create the software component of the system. Scratch’s drag-and-drop interface allows for creating complex interactive applications without requiring advanced programming skills. This makes it an ideal tool for developing educational games and activities tailored to the needs of autistic children. The Scratch extensions for Makey Makey enable seamless integration of physical interactions into digital projects, enriching the user experience and enhancing the educational value of the activities [24,25]. The use of friendly colors and sensory elements ensures that the learning experience is both enjoyable and effective, catering to the unique needs of children with autism.
This integration fosters experiential learning, encourages exploration, and facilitates social interaction and collaboration. These tools offer a wide range of skill development opportunities, spanning task comprehension, active engagement, competitiveness, motivation, self-confidence, exposure to new stimuli (e.g., textures, sounds), and proficiency in various game categories [2].
4. Research Methodology: Theoretical and Practical Aspects
The implementation of play therapy offers a novel approach to supporting individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders, aiming to complement conventional therapeutic methods. Embracing a holistic therapeutic approach, our team of software developers endeavor to utilize Makey Makey and Scratch to craft games explicitly tailored for support purposes. These games are intricately designed to encourage logical reasoning, facilitate the direct expression of emotions, augment emotional comprehension, promote empathy, and interactively refine memory and attention skills.
This initiative arises from recognizing that the challenges encountered by individuals with ASD can be broadly categorized in two realms: one centered on emotional and social development and the other focused on intellectual advancement. Extensive research underscores the hurdles faced by children with ASD in assimilating into society, ranging from establishing emotional connections to accomplishing tasks proficiently. By hamessing children’s enthusiasm for video games, this approach leverages enjoyment to stimulate motivation and active participation, ultimately fostering favorable behavioral changes [2].
4.1. Emotional Development
Research indicates that children with autism frequently encounter difficulties in emotional development that are often linked to anomalies in the limbic system, a critical component of the brain responsible for emotional behavior [4]. These anomalies can hinder their ability to form emotional connections, empathize with others, interpret facial expressions, and recognize their own emotions. Such challenges significantly affect their social interactions, leading to feelings of isolation, anxiety, and depression [5].
Interventions focusing on emotional and social skills are crucial for addressing these challenges. One innovative approach involves using games created with Makey Makey and Scratch, specifically designed to enhance emotional and social competencies. These games provide a structured and interactive platform for skill development, making the learning process engaging and effective.
Recent studies and practical applications of these tools have demonstrated positive outcomes. For example, the interactive nature of the games helps children with ASD practice and improve their ability to recognize and respond to various emotional cues in a controlled yet playful environment. By incorporating play therapy elements, these interventions make learning enjoyable and facilitate significant improvements in emotional comprehension and social interaction skills [2].
Results from these interventions have shown that children who engage with Makey Makey and Scratch games exhibit enhanced emotional recognition skills and empathy and an enhanced ability to navigate social situations. These improvements contribute to a higher quality of life by reducing feelings of isolation and anxiety and promoting better mental health and social integration.
4.1.1. Emotion Recognition
The emotion recognition game helps autistic children identify and distinguish between four core emotions commonly experienced in daily life: anger, fear, happiness, and sadness. Before engaging in the game, children undergo a pre-test to evaluate their ability to identify emotions. This pre-test consists of a paper-based activity and a gamified self-assessment that associates expressions with events and emotions, incorporating tactile and software components utilizing Makey Makey and Scratch [2]. The pre-test aims to assess and reinforce the children’s existing knowledge, providing a comprehensive overview of the upcoming tasks (Figure 4).
Figure 4.
 
Open in a new tab
The physical setup corresponding to the pre-test.
The game setup involves placing the circuit in a colorful, child-friendly box with holes for all the involved wires (Figure 5). This setup is designed to integrate seamlessly into a floortime therapy session. The hardware component includes four templates representing the primary emotions, covered with aluminum foil on the back for conductivity and feature pockets for connecting cables. Each emotion template is linked to a specific keyboard key (up, down, left, and right arrows), and a ground connection is achieved by connecting a cable to the “earth” pin on the board and attaching the other end to a conductive accessory held by the child.
Figure 5.
 
Open in a new tab
Game interface environment.
The game’s objective is to enhance children’s recognition of primary emotions. Children advance through eight scenarios, selecting the matching emotion template for each scenario. A cat character guides them through the game, presenting situations that depict primary emotions (Figure 6). Correct identification triggers a sound signal and a congratulatory message or applause, allowing the child to advance. Incorrect responses prompt encouragement for the child to try again.
Figure 6.
 
Open in a new tab
Game interfaces.
Following the game’s completion, the children’s level of emotion recognition is re-assessed through a post-test (Figure 7). Unlike the pre-test, which uses drawings and emojis, the post-test presents expressions of real individuals, offering a more realistic measure of the children’s emotional identification abilities. This reassessment provides valuable insights into the children’s progress and highlights areas for further improvement.
Figure 7.
 
Open in a new tab
Post-test experiment.
This game aims to create a stress-free learning environment that fosters emotional awareness and understanding in autistic children. The game engages and educates children by utilizing interactive elements and real-life scenarios, ultimately empowering them to navigate social situations more effectively. This approach has shown promise in improving children’s ability to identify and understand emotions, thereby enhancing the overall quality of life for those with ASD.
4.1.2. Social Story
The next game in the emotional development series focuses on fostering social interaction by enhancing understanding of social cues and expressions, while also developing observational skills, creativity, and empathy. Autism often presents significant communication and social engagement challenges, making it difficult for individuals to initiate and sustain connections, build friendships, and fully grasp the nuances of social norms and expectations [4]. Many individuals with autism struggle with interpreting non-verbal cues, participating in social activities, demonstrating empathy, and expressing themselves effectively. Some may even prefer solitude, engaging independently with objects or toys.
Set against the backdrop of a classic childhood outing—a school trip to a museum—this game unfolds in five captivating sequences. Each sequence invites players to decode images, unravel social cues, and piece together events in the correct order. As players progress, they place story cards onto the game board (Figure 8), marked with cheerful sun symbols and LEDs that light up upon correct placement.
Figure 8.
 
Open in a new tab
Social storyboard.
Each space on the board features a unique design that is intricately linked to marks on the back of the story cards, completing an enchanting discovery circuit. To avoid confusion, all patterns are unique. With every step, LED lights illuminate in sync with specific keys on the Makey Makey board, and arrow keys and the SPACE key are used to navigate the journey (Figure 9).
Figure 9.
 
Open in a new tab
Initial setup with Makey Makey.
As players delve deeper into the game, they are greeted with encouraging sounds and visuals, celebrating their successes and guiding them forward. The absence of repetition ensures clarity, allowing the narrative to shine seamlessly. Narrative consistency is maintained, and players can earn stars for each correct association (Figure 10).
Figure 10.
 
Open in a new tab
Scratch interface corresponding to winning two stars.
The game aims to provide a structured yet engaging environment where children with autism can practice and enhance their social skills. The game simulates real-life social scenarios and helps children understand and interpret social cues, develop empathy, and improve their interaction abilities. The game’s interactive and rewarding nature also maintains the children’s interest and motivation, facilitating more effective learning and retention of social skills.
4.2. Attention and Memory Training
Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) frequently encounter challenges in maintaining attention due to sensory sensitivities, restricted interests, organizational difficulties, impulse control issues, social comprehension struggles, and transitional issues. These obstacles can significantly hinder their ability to focus on tasks or activities for extended periods. Adapting their environment and activities and providing personalized support can help address these attention-related difficulties specific to autistic children [6,26].
Various strategies and activities are employed to train attention and memory in children with autism, including attention games, concentration exercises, memory activities, interactive technology, and organizational strategies. These approaches aim to enhance attention, concentration, and memory skills through engaging and interactive methods, leveraging customized technology and structured environments to optimize learning experiences for children with autism [7,19].
Attention games and concentration exercises are designed to build the capacity for sustained focus incrementally. Memory activities often incorporate visual and auditory stimuli to reinforce learning and retention. Interactive technology, such as apps and software tailored to children with ASD, provides an engaging platform for these exercises. For example, Makey Makey and Scratch have shown promise in creating interactive environments where children can develop these skills in a fun and immersive way [2].
Organizational strategies, including visual schedules and structured routines, help children understand and predict activities, reducing anxiety and improving focus. By employing these multifaceted approaches, educators and therapists can create a supportive learning environment that addresses the unique needs of children with autism, enhancing their cognitive abilities and overall learning outcomes.
4.2.1. Toy Hunt
Toy Hunt is an engaging game designed to enhance children’s attention and fine motor skills, particularly for those with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The game challenges participants to extract four objects from a toy box using specially designed openings, encouraging precise hand and finger movements while avoiding excessive touches. With each successful extraction, participants are rewarded with sensory effects, including sound cues, visual prompts, and audio pronunciation of the identified object.
Although several games were considered, ‘Memory Maze’ was selected for the intervention because it is specifically designed to improve memory and concentration, two developmental areas that are particularly challenging for children with ASD. The other games were analyzed but were not included in the final intervention due to their focus on different cognitive and emotional areas.
The physical setup resembles a colorful toy box with four extraction zones designated for specific objects (Figure 11). Conductive materials, such as aluminum foil, cover the components, facilitating circuit completion when placed correctly on the board. The game incorporates gamification elements, with a buzzing sound accompanying any attempt to cross the forbidden boundary, aimed at regaining the child’s attention and motivating them to complete the task.
Figure 11.
 
Open in a new tab
Physical setup of the extraction game.
Key components of the setup include the use of keys on the Makey Makey board, with the SPACE key associated with touching the boundary, facilitating interaction and gameplay (Figure 12). Recognition relies on conductive materials, with aluminum foil covering the object parts for circuit completion. Connections between input pins, Makey Makey board keys, and objects are established, allowing interaction.
Figure 12.
 
Open in a new tab
Makey Makey board connections.
The game in Scratch includes random object extraction with no imposed order. Successfully placing an object triggers sensory effects, such as a sound, a green heart, and audio pronunciation. Touching the boundary prompts a more robust sound and the intermittent appearance of a red heart, designed to increase concentration (Figure 13). Errors are recorded for later observation of hand coordination improvement. The game continues until all objects are identified, with the final condition triggering a congratulatory window, showcasing variables and sensory effects. Through interactive gameplay and carefully crafted feedback mechanisms, Toy Hunt offers a supportive environment for children with ASD to practice attention and motor skills, fostering skill development and confidence.
Figure 13.
 
Open in a new tab
Interface in Scratch: correct positioning of all objects (right), wrong positioning (left).
4.2.2. Memory Maze
The Memory Maze game is a valuable tool designed to enhance memory and concentration skills in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Recent studies show that interventions aimed at improving memory and concentration can have a positive impact on cognitive development in children with ASD [14]. The initial description of the alternative games highlights the thorough analysis conducted before the final selection of the ‘Memory Maze’ game. Its clear and repetitive structure is particularly beneficial for individuals who thrive on routine, offering predictability and comfort while engaging them in cognitive tasks. Initially utilizing colored cards, the game now features colored clay buttons, providing a tactile sensation that stimulates interest and engagement.
Within the game, players are presented with sequences of colors and sounds, which gradually increase in complexity as they progress through levels. This progression challenges their memory skills and encourages sustained attention and focus. The physical setup initially included four colored cards with aluminum foil backs connected to corresponding arrow keys on the Makey Makey board. To enhance the tactile experience and make it more appealing to children, plasticine of the same color was used instead of cards (Figure 14).
Figure 14.
 
Open in a new tab
Physical setup of the game.
The game begins with simple sequences that gradually increase in length and complexity. Players must remember and replicate these sequences using the colored clay buttons connected to the Makey Makey board. The conductive properties of the aluminum foil and clay ensure that each touch is registered accurately, facilitating smooth gameplay.
As the players advance, the sequences become more challenging, requiring greater concentration and memory retention. This incremental difficulty helps to build cognitive skills systematically. Sensory feedback, such as sound cues and visual prompts, reinforces learning and keeps the players engaged. The game’s repetitive nature also helps reinforce neural pathways, aiding in memory retention and recall.
While errors necessitate a restart, this mechanism encourages sustained attention and motivates players to strive for improvement, blending interactive gameplay with focused skill-building activities (Figure 15).
Figure 15.
 
Open in a new tab
Interface corresponding to the moment of loss.
The Memory Maze game serves as an educational tool and provides therapeutic benefits by promoting mental stimulation and cognitive development. It is designed to create an enjoyable learning environment where children with ASD can improve their memory and concentration skills in a structured and supportive setting. Ultimately, the Memory Maze game provides a comprehensive and enjoyable avenue for enhancing these critical skills in autistic children.
5. Experimental Methodology, Results, and Discussion
5.1. Participants
An initial group of 60 children was selected for the study to evaluate the efficacy of the Memory Maze game in enhancing memory and concentration skills. The participants varied in age, gender, and cognitive abilities, providing a diverse sample for comprehensive analysis.
Participants in the study were recruited from local ASD therapy centers, consisting of 60 children aged 6–12 years who had been diagnosed according to DSM-5 criteria. The study was conducted in compliance with the Declaration of Helsinki and national legislation regarding research involving vulnerable populations. Parental consent was obtained for all participants via a written consent form which was thoroughly explained to parents or legal guardians. Children were informed that they could withdraw from the study at any point without any consequences, ensuring their autonomy and comfort. The assessments were conducted by licensed clinical psychologists, ensuring adherence to strict privacy and confidentiality protocols. Ethical approval was obtained from the relevant institutional review board, and all necessary measures were taken to safeguard the rights of the vulnerable participants.
The inclusion of ADHD assessments in this study was based on the high prevalence of comorbidity between ASD and ADHD, as documented in previous research. Given that children with ASD often exhibit symptoms of attention deficits and hyperactivity, it was essential to evaluate how these factors influenced the intervention’s effectiveness. Each participant’s ADHD diagnosis was confirmed using standardized clinical criteria from the DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition) and administered by licensed psychologists. The sample included children with the following ADHD subtypes: Inattentive, Hyperactive–Impulsive, and Combined. ADHD scores were collected and analyzed to assess their impact on the intervention, with results indicating significant variations in response based on ADHD subtype.
The participants in this study were randomly selected from local ASD therapy centers. The sample consisted of 60 children, aged between 6 and 12 years (with a mean age of 9 years), representing a demographic group from Southeastern Europe. Of the participants, 55% were boys and 45% were girls. Before the intervention, each child underwent standardized cognitive tasks that are commonly used for evaluating memory and concentration in children with ASD. These tasks were adapted from established instruments, including the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC) and the Conners’ Continuous Performance Test (CPT). The WISC was used to assess general cognitive functioning, while the CPT measured attention and impulse control. All assessments were conducted by licensed clinical psychologists specializing in developmental disorders, ensuring that the tests were administered in a consistent and reliable manner.
The experimental procedure involved several key phases:
•	Pre-Test Assessment: Each child underwent a pre-test assessment to establish a baseline for their memory and concentration abilities. The pre-test consisted of cognitive tasks designed to measure initial performance, with possible scores ranging from 0 to 100 points. The group of children achieved scores ranging from 40 to 69 points. Factors such as age, gender, and initial cognitive scores were recorded.
•	Intervention with Memory Maze: The children were introduced to the game. This interactive tool was employed over a specified period, during which children engaged with the game in a structured environment. The game presented sequences of colors and sounds, increasing in complexity to challenge the participants’ memory and attention skills progressively.
•	Game Setup: The physical setup of the game included colored clay buttons connected to a Makey Makey board. Each button represented a color and was covered with conductive materials to facilitate accurate interaction. The game’s interface, developed in Scratch, provided immediate sensory feedback (visual and auditory) to enhance engagement and reinforce learning. The pre-test scores ranged from 40 to 69 points (with a mean score of 54.5 points), reflecting a balanced distribution of initial cognitive abilities among the participants. These data provide a solid basis for evaluating the intervention’s effectiveness by measuring improvements in the children’s memory and concentration following the use of the ‘Memory Maze’ game.
•	Post-Test Assessment: Following the intervention period, the children were re-assessed using a post-test identical in structure to the pre-test. This assessment measured any improvements in memory and concentration, with final scores recorded for each participant.
5.2. Data Collection
The primary collected data included age: the participants ranged from 6 to 12 years. The group included both male and female participants. Baseline cognitive performance scores were obtained from a pre-test. Cognitive performance scores were obtained from the post-test after the Memory Maze game testing phase. All procedures performed in this study involving human participants were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and national research committee and the 1964 Helsinki Declaration and its later amendments, or comparable ethical standards.
5.3. ADHD Diagnosis
The study participants were diagnosed with ADHD through a comprehensive evaluation process conducted by licensed mental health professionals, typically psychologists, psychiatrists, or pediatricians. The diagnosis of ADHD is based on standardized criteria outlined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), published by the American Psychiatric Association [1]. The diagnostic process includes clinical interviews with parents, teachers, and the child, depending on their age and communication abilities. Information about the child’s behavior at home and in school is gathered through these structured interviews [26]. Behavior rating scales and checklists, such as the Conners’ Rating Scales, Vanderbilt ADHD Diagnostic Rating Scales, and the ADHD Rating Scale-IV, are commonly used to assess the frequency and severity of ADHD symptoms [27,28]. Clinicians may also observe the child in different settings, such as at home or in school, to see how they behave in various environments [29]. Additionally, cognitive and neuropsychological tests, such as the Continuous Performance Test (CPT) and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC), help identify attention and executive function deficits [30].
There are three main types of ADHD, classified based on their predominant symptoms: ADHD, predominantly Inattentive type; ADHD, predominantly Hyperactive–Impulsive type; and ADHD, Combined type [1]. The type of ADHD can influence the approach to intervention and the specific areas of improvement targeted by the Memory Maze game. Children with predominantly inattentive symptoms may benefit more from tasks designed to enhance sustained attention. In contrast, those with hyperactive–impulsive symptoms might require activities that promote impulse control and executive functioning. Understanding the type of ADHD helps in tailoring interventions to meet each child’s specific needs, thereby optimizing therapeutic outcomes [1].
5.4. Methods Ensuring Accurate Test Results
Several methodological approaches were employed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the test results. A pre-test and post-test design allowed for a clear comparison of cognitive abilities before and after the intervention, helping to measure the direct impact of the Memory Maze game on the participants’ memory and attention skills. The mental tasks used in the pre-test and post-test were standardized, ensuring consistency in what was being measured, with scores ranging from 0 to 100 points. All testing was conducted in a controlled environment to reduce the influence of external factors on the participants’ performance, including by maintaining consistent lighting, noise levels, and testing materials.
The sequences of colors and sounds in the Memory Maze game were randomized to prevent learning effects from previous exposures, ensuring scores were improved due to enhanced cognitive abilities rather than the memorization of specific sequences. Participants received exact instructions and guidance throughout the testing process, helping to eliminate variability in how the children were presented with and understood the tasks. Observers and facilitators involved in the testing were thoroughly trained to administer the tests and interact with participants consistently, including handling the Makey Makey setup and providing instructions without influencing the children’s responses.
Data were meticulously recorded and analyzed to identify patterns and ensure accuracy. Statistical analysis tools were used to assess the significance of improvements and control for any potential biases in the data. Errors made during the tasks were carefully tracked and analyzed, providing insight into areas where participants struggled and helping to refine the tasks and instructions for clarity and effectiveness. By implementing these rigorous methods, the study aimed to ensure that the test results accurately reflected the participants’ improvements in memory and concentration due to the Memory Maze game.
5.5. Statistics
A paired t-test was conducted to evaluate the significance of the improvements in scores following the intervention with the Memory Maze game. This test is appropriate for comparing the means of two related groups: the initial and final scores of the same participants. The paired t-test assesses whether the mean difference between these two scores is statistically significant.
The paired t-test was chosen because it considers that the same children were tested before and after the intervention, thus controlling for individual differences in performance. By comparing the initial and final scores, the test provides a robust measure of the effectiveness of the Memory Maze game in improving memory and concentration skills.
In addition to the paired t-test, descriptive statistics such as the mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and percentiles were calculated to provide a comprehensive overview of the data. These statistical measures helped to quantify overall improvement and identify trends across different age groups and genders.
5.6. Results
Below is a summary table, Table 1, of the data grouped by age, showing the mean initial scores, final scores, and improvements for both females and males:
Table 1.
Mean Initial and Final Scores, and Improvements for Females and Males by Age Group.
Age	Female Initial Score (Mean)	Female Final Score (Mean)	Female Improvement (Mean)	Male Initial Score (Mean)	Male Final Score (Mean)	Male Improvement (Mean)
6	43.50	68.75	25.25	48.00	71.00	23.00
7	58.00	79.20	21.20	57.20	77.80	20.60
8	52.67	75.00	22.33	50.33	73.33	23.00
9	55.33	77.67	22.33	53.33	76.33	23.00
10	52.25	78.75	26.50	50.67	75.67	25.00
11	47.00	72.00	25.00	49.67	72.67	23.00
12	53.00	77.00	24.00	50.67	74.33	23.67
Open in a new tab
This table provides a detailed overview of the performance and improvements of boys and girls across different age groups after using the Memory Maze game.
The differences between the initial and final scores were analyzed to determine the effectiveness of the Memory Maze game. Improvements were calculated and categorized by age and gender to identify trends or patterns. Statistical analysis provided insights into the average improvement across different demographics, highlighting the game’s impact on enhancing memory and concentration skills in autistic children.
The table below, Table 2, summarizes the central results by age, including the mean initial score, final score, and improvement:
Table 2.
Central results of children by age, including the mean initial score, final score, and improvement.
Age	Gender	Initial Score (Mean)	Final Score (Mean)	Improvement (Mean)
6	Mixed	46.17	70.67	24.50
7	Mixed	57.50	78.33	20.83
8	Mixed	51.50	74.10	22.60
9	Mixed	54.50	77.00	22.50
10	Mixed	51.56	77.22	25.67
11	Mixed	48.57	72.14	23.57
12	Mixed	51.70	75.60	23.90
Open in a new tab
The scores presented in this table refer to children’s performance on a specific set of cognitive tasks designed to assess their memory and concentration skills. The initial score represents the children’s performance on these tasks before using the Memory Maze game. The tasks involve sequences of colors and sounds that users must remember and replicate. The final score represents the children’s performance on tasks that are either the same or very similar to those used in the pre-test after using the Memory Maze game. It measures the improvements in their memory and concentration skills. The difference between the initial and final scores indicates an improvement in children’s cognitive skills after engaging with the Memory Maze game.
The scoring scale for the Memory Maze game ranges from 0 to 100 points, with higher scores indicating better performance on the cognitive tasks. The scale is categorized into four performance levels. Scores between 0 and 30 points indicate poor performance, where users struggle to maintain attention and memory. Scores between 31 and 60 points represent average performance, indicating that users demonstrate moderate abilities in attention and memory but still have room for improvement. Scores between 61 and 90 points signify good performance, indicating that users have strong attention and memory skills. Scores between 91 and 100 points reflect excellent performance, demonstrating that users have high attention and memory skills.
In addition to the t-test, an Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was conducted to evaluate the influence of ADHD subtype (Inattentive, Hyperactive–Impulsive, Combined) and gender (male, female) on the improvement in memory and concentration scores. The dependent variable was the improvement in scores, defined as the difference between the pre-test and post-test scores.
The results of the ANOVA indicated that ADHD subtype had a significant effect on the improvement in memory and concentration scores (F(2, 57) = 5.34, p < 0.01). Specifically, children with the Hyperactive–Impulsive subtype showed the highest average improvement, with a mean increase of 15 points in memory and concentration scores, compared to 10 points for the Inattentive subtype and 8 points for the Combined subtype.
In contrast, gender did not have a significant effect on the improvement in scores (F(1, 58) = 1.23, p > 0.05), indicating that both male and female participants exhibited similar responses to the intervention. These results suggest that ADHD subtype plays a crucial role in determining the effectiveness of the intervention, while gender does not appear to be a significant factor.
To ensure the statistical validity of the results, a power analysis was conducted to determine whether the sample size of 60 participants was sufficient. The analysis indicated that, with an effect size of 0.5 and a significance level of p < 0.05, the sample size provided a statistical power of 0.80. This level of power is generally considered sufficient to detect medium-sized effects in intervention studies. As such, the sample size was deemed appropriate for the purposes of this study and adequate for ensuring the validity of the results.
5.7. Statistical Analysis and Results Based on ADHD Type
Furthermore, to analyze the effectiveness of the Memory Maze game, participants were categorized based on their type of ADHD: Inattentive, Hyperactive–Impulsive, and Combined.
5.8. Discussion
The analysis of improvements in scores following intervention with the Memory Maze game reveals significant gains in memory and concentration skills among the participants. Overall, the mean improvement across all children was 23.38 points, with a standard deviation of 4.11 points, indicating a consistent enhancement in performance. The minimum observed improvement was 15 points, while the maximum was 29 points. The 25th percentile of improvement was 20.75 points, the median (50th percentile) was 24 points, and the 75th percentile was 27 points.
When analyzing improvements by gender, female participants showed an average improvement of 24.16 points, while male participants exhibited a slightly lower average improvement of 23.02 points.
Improvements were also analyzed by age group, revealing the following average improvements: children aged 6 demonstrated an average improvement of 24.50 points; children aged 7 showed an average improvement of 20.83 points; children aged 8 had an average improvement of 22.60 points; children aged 9 exhibited an average improvement of 22.50 points; children aged 10 showed the highest average improvement of 25.67 points; children aged 11 demonstrated an average improvement of 23.57 points; and children aged 12 exhibited an average improvement of 23.90 points.
These results indicate that the Memory Maze game effectively enhances cognitive skills across different ages and genders, with particularly notable improvements observed in younger children and those aged 10. The game’s structured, interactive nature and its repetitive and engaging tasks contribute to these significant cognitive gains.
After analyzing the statistical analysis and the results based on ADHD type in Table 3, we observed that all three groups significantly improved their scores after using the Memory Maze game. The mean improvement for children with the Inattentive type of ADHD was 23.53 points; for those with the Hyperactive–Impulsive type, it was 25.00 points; and for those with the Combined type, it was 24.15 points. These improvements highlight the effectiveness of the Memory Maze game across different types of ADHD, with the Hyperactive–Impulsive group showing the highest average improvement.
Table 3.
The mean initial scores, final scores, and improvements for each ADHD type.
Adhd Type	Initial Score (Mean)	Final Score (Mean)	Improvement (Mean)	Initial Score (Std)	Final Score (Std)	Improvement (Std)
Inattentive	51.68	75.21	23.53	5.83	6.17	4.39
Hyperactive–Impulsive	50.67	75.67	25.00	5.49	5.83	4.00
Combined	51.11	75.26	24.15	5.82	6.15	4.12
Open in a new tab
When conducting an ANOVA to assess the influence of gender and age on the intervention outcomes, we found the following results.
Gender did not have a statistically significant impact on the results (F(1, 58) = 1.23, p > 0.05), indicating that both boys and girls benefited similarly from the intervention. Slight differences in improvement were observed, with boys showing marginally higher improvements than girls, but these differences were not statistically significant. These findings suggest that, while minor variations may exist due to factors like engagement or learning style, the intervention was equally effective across genders.
Age had a more pronounced effect on the outcomes (F(2, 57) = 4.15, p < 0.05). Children aged between 8 and 10 demonstrated the greatest improvements in their scores on memory tasks compared to younger and older children. This likely reflects the cognitive development stage of children in this age group, who may be more receptive to memory and concentration-focused interventions. These results suggest that interventions may need to be tailored according to developmental stages to maximize their effectiveness.
The results demonstrated significant improvements in both memory and concentration following the use of the Memory Maze game, confirming the effectiveness of the intervention.
A Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) was used to evaluate the acceptance of the Memory Maze game by children with ASD and their caregivers. The TAM measures two key factors that influence user acceptance: Perceived Usefulness (PU) and Perceived Ease of Use (PEOU). PU refers to the degree to which the game is seen as helpful in improving memory and concentration, while PEOU measures how simple and intuitive the game is to use. In our evaluation, both children and caregivers rated the game highly on both PU and PEOU, indicating that the game was perceived as useful and easy to use. These findings suggest that the Memory Maze game has the potential to be widely accepted as a tool for cognitive improvement in children with ASD. Additionally, we collected feedback on the Attitude Toward Using and Behavioral Intention to Use, which showed positive responses, confirming the potential for the regular use of the game.
Our findings are consistent with those of Zeidan et al. [2], who reported global prevalence rates of autism and emphasized the importance of early intervention strategies, such as those applied in our study. Additionally, Budisteanu et al. [3] conducted a prevalence study in Romania, providing context for our sample and further underlining the necessity of localized interventions targeting cognitive skills in children with ASD.
Our results also align with Levy et al. [4], who highlighted the critical role of cognitive interventions in improving outcomes for children with ASD. Similar to our work, their study found that structured, game-based approaches significantly improved memory and concentration. Moreover, Dechsling et al. [19] and Ip et al. [20] explored the application of virtual reality in ASD interventions, focusing on social and emotional skills. While our study primarily addressed cognitive functions, the success of these virtual reality-based interventions supports the effectiveness of interactive digital tools in promoting broader developmental outcomes.
Overall, the Memory Maze game effectively enhanced memory and concentration skills in children with different types of ADHD. The significant improvements observed across all groups suggest that this intervention can be broadly applied to support children with varying ADHD presentations, contributing positively to their cognitive development and therapeutic outcomes [1,26,27,28,29,30].
The Memory Maze game’s structured and supportive setting, combined with its interactive and repetitive nature, proved it to be an effective method for cognitive enhancement. The findings demonstrated significant improvements in the children’s ability to maintain attention and enhancements in their memory, underscoring the potential of such gamified interventions in educational and therapeutic contexts.
Considering several demographic factors, our comprehensive approach ensured robust and reliable results, paving the way for future research and development in similar interventions. This study highlights the importance of using tailored, interactive tools like the Memory Maze game to support cognitive development in children with ASD, ultimately contributing to their overall well-being and quality of life.
6. Limitations
Although the sample size of 60 participants was adequate for the statistical analysis performed in this study, it may limit the broader generalizability of the findings. A larger sample size in future research would provide more robust data to confirm these results and extend their applicability to a wider population. Additionally, the sample was limited to children from a specific geographic region, potentially restricting the applicability of the findings to other populations. Furthermore, the short duration of the intervention may affect the long-term impact of the game on memory and concentration. Future research should address these limitations by expanding the sample size and geographic scope, and by evaluating the long-term effects of the intervention.
7. Conclusions
Developing and implementing therapeutic games for children with autism utilizing Makey Makey and Scratch have revealed several significant findings. These games represent a comprehensive approach to therapy, addressing key areas such as concentration, motivation, social interaction, experiential learning, and academic resources. By integrating physical components, these games offer a unique advantage over online-only applications, establishing tangible connections to personal objects and fostering real-life connections within therapy sessions.
The data indicate that, on average, children showed significant improvement in their memory and concentration skills after using the Memory Maze game. The mean improvement across all age groups was approximately 23.38 points, with the most notable enhancements observed in children aged 10, who showed an average improvement of 25.67 points. Females exhibited a slightly higher average improvement than males, with 24.16 points and 23.02 points, respectively.
The differences between the initial and final scores were analyzed to determine the effectiveness of the Memory Maze game. Improvements were calculated and categorized by age and gender to identify trends or patterns. Statistical analysis provided insights into the average improvements across different demographics, highlighting the game’s impact on enhancing memory and concentration skills in autistic children.
The Memory Maze game demonstrates significant potential to enhance memory and concentration skills in children with ADHD. Across all three types of ADHD—Inattentive, Hyperactive–Impulsive, and Combined—participants showed substantial improvements in their cognitive abilities. The game’s tailored approach allows it to address the specific needs of each ADHD type, promoting sustained attention, impulse control, and overall executive functioning.
The data indicate that the Memory Maze game facilitates cognitive skill development and engages children interactively and enjoyably. The game supports a wide range of therapeutic outcomes by providing a structured yet flexible learning environment, making it a valuable addition to existing ADHD interventions.
Also, the results of the ANOVA analysis demonstrated that ADHD subtype had a significant effect on the improvement in memory and concentration scores, with children diagnosed with the Hyperactive–Impulsive subtype showing the greatest improvements. Gender, on the other hand, did not significantly influence the intervention outcomes. These findings highlight the importance of considering individual characteristics, such as ADHD subtype, when designing interventions aimed at improving cognitive functions in children with ASD.
A pivotal aspect of these games is their thoughtful design, which incorporates friendly colors, sensory comfort, and the absence of limiting factors such as limited lives. These design considerations contribute to a positive and engaging experience for children with autism, enhancing their overall participation and enjoyment. Furthermore, including affective reinforcement mechanisms, such as sound cues and encouraging messages, plays a vital role in sustaining motivation throughout gameplay.
The repeatable nature of these games allows for revisits without additional effort, facilitating enhanced learning and reducing the need for extrinsic rewards. Additionally, incorporating quantification and testing features enables a detailed assessment of progress, facilitating the customization of interventions to meet individual needs and optimizing therapy outcomes.
The Memory Maze game was well received by both children with ASD and their caregivers, as shown by the results of the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) analysis. The game was rated highly for Perceived Usefulness (PU) and Perceived Ease of Use (PEOU), suggesting strong potential for its adoption as a cognitive improvement tool. Additionally, positive feedback on Attitude Toward Using and Behavioral Intention to Use further supports the game’s potential for regular use.
We observed an immense potential for further improvements in therapeutic gaming for children with autism. Areas for future development include direct training approaches, enhanced monitoring capabilities, the incorporation of progressively challenging levels, improved physical components, and the creation of new applications tailored to address diverse challenges faced by children with autism and other disabilities. By continually refining and expanding these therapeutic tools, we can better support the unique needs and abilities of autistic children, ultimately improving their quality of life and fostering their overall development. In the future, we aim to test the Memory Maze game across various demographics to understand its effectiveness better. Additionally, we plan to broaden its use to cater to other conditions such as ADHD, learning disabilities, and anxiety disorders.
Future research will focus on several key areas: conducting longitudinal studies to assess the long-term impact of the Memory Maze game on cognitive and social development in children with autism and other conditions; incorporating customization features that allow the game to be tailored to the specific needs and abilities of each child; engaging parents and teachers in the therapeutic process by providing them with tools and resources to support the child’s development at home and in school; exploring the integration of the Memory Maze game with other therapeutic approaches, such as speech therapy, occupational therapy, and behavioral interventions; utilizing advanced data analytics to gain deeper insights into the effectiveness of the game; developing mobile and online versions of the Memory Maze game to increase accessibility and allow children to engage with the game outside of traditional therapy sessions; adding multilingual support to the game to cater to children from diverse linguistic backgrounds; and introducing collaborative gameplay features that allow children to play and interact with their peers.
Integrating advanced data analytics, customization features, and parent–teacher engagement strategies will also enhance the therapeutic potential of this innovative tool. Overall, the Memory Maze game offers a promising avenue for improving quality of life and developmental outcomes for children with ADHD, supporting their cognitive growth and academic success.

Attention is a precious and yet scarce resource. Moreover, ‘The quality of one’s life depends on the quality of one’s attention. Whatever you pay attention to will grow in your life and the rest withers’, said Deepak Chopra. Therefore, it is vital to learn how to maximise our attention and to use this essential and scarce resource intelligently.
To make an already tough job even more demanding, many children with neurodevelopmental disorders such as ADHD, ASD, and Dyspraxia, have significantly less attention and are prone to distraction. Attention is critical in maximising children’s learning, their cognitive processes (language, information processing, memory, reasoning, problem-solving, planning, etc.), and their functioning.
Therefore, in this article, I have summarised several strategies that one can put in place to increase a child’s attention and concentration. Whilst there are volumes of books written on theoretical aspects of attention, I have shared here with you several practical strategies, that you can use to increase a child’s attention and focus.
#1. Educational Strategies
•	Gain the child’s attention before you speak
•	Give one instruction at a time
•	Repeat your instruction if needed
•	Ideally, give instruction in both written and verbal form
•	Ask your child to repeat back your instruction to check their understanding
•	Seat the child away from distractions, e.g. doors, windows, noisy radiators etc.
•	In class, seat the child in front of the teacher rather than at the back of the class
•	Where possible, seat the child at a table with a more focused child
•	Keep distractions to a minimum
•	Contrary to widely held belief, allowing the child to have a fidget toy or a stress ball, aids attention
•	Divide big assignments into smaller chunks
•	Schedule 5-10-minute movement breaks between each lesson
•	Allow the child to move around or stretch where possible
•	Avoid repetitive activities. Give frequent breaks or shift some activities
•	Vary the type of activity to maximise attention
•	Schedule the most challenging/important concepts earlier in the day
•	Have a visual planner/visual schedule
•	Write a schedule for the day on a whiteboard, where possible
 
#2.Behavioural Strategies
•	Set clear expectations and realistic goals
•	Have discrete gestures to remind the child to focus
•	Praise their efforts
•	Set small achievable targets
•	Reward their behaviour with sticker charts or age-appropriate rewards
•	Catch them often while they are good
•	Celebrate their achievement.
•	Provide them with support and encouragement to boost their confidence
•	Think creatively about making the activity/learning enjoyable and fun
•	Predictable background noise or music might be better than complete silence while doing their homework
 
#3. Organisational Strategies
•	Keep child’s desk/working table uncluttered
•	Boost their organisational abilities by providing them with checklists, and to-do lists
•	Help them to be organised by having things ready for an activity such as pencils, pens, erasers, calculator etc.
•	Give them colour coded folders
•	Set reminders for collecting kit, homework or doing project work
•	Avoid the need for multitasking. Stick to one task at a time
•	Improve their focus with a step-by-step approach
•	Involve them in planning and reviewing the above strategies
•	Keep practising, as the repeated practice is the key to success
 
#4.Maximise exercise and sport
Regular movement breaks help improve attention and focus. Maximise the child’s opportunities to get exercise. Encourage participation in sport. Exercise and participation in sport are shown to improve attention and concentration. Intense aerobic exercises have been shown to enhance the brain’s functioning and improve children’s attention and concentration. Activity and exercise may involve, walking to school, involving them in the tasks/chores, a jog around the neighbourhood/playground, trampolining, going to the gym, or participation in a sports activity of their choice.
#5. Ensure adequate sleep
Inadequate sleep and sleep deprivation are well known to impair attention, working memory and vigilance. Chronic sleep deprivation can reduce cognitive performance by increasing distractibility and impairing a child’s ability to focus. Ensuring adequate sleep for a child facilitates their ability to process and retain information.  You can read more about addressing sleep difficulties in a child .
#6. Diet and hydration
Eating regularly throughout the day helps in improving attention, possibly by maintaining steady levels of glucose and energy. There are several studies that have shown that artificial colourings and preservatives, such as sodium benzoate can cause a small but significant increase in children’s hyperactivity. Therefore, minimising major sources of artificial colouring and additives would help.
A study published in PLoS One in 2019, showed that increasing the quantity of water drank improved educational outcomes through the effect of hydration on attention, concentration, and short-term memory. Other studies have shown that dehydration of 2% or more body mass loss can increase the perception of fatigue, induce impairment in cognitive functions such as memory and attention. Therefore, eating at regular intervals throughout the day and not skipping meals, and staying well hydrated improve attention and concentration.
#7. Meditation and mindfulness
Mindfulness is a mental mode where attention is paid to the present moment without emotional reactivity or judgement. A study published in Frontiers in Human Neuroscience in 2018, showed that even brief mindfulness meditation improved attention. Research has also shown that mindfulness training improves executive functioning of the brain. In children, mindfulness activities may involve helping them to focus on their breathing or colouring a picture mindfully in a peaceful environment.
#8. Planned and conscious use of technology
New technologies can provide excellent learning opportunities. However, prolonged, indiscriminate use of technology and screen time have been shown to affect memory, attention, and sleep cycles. Some studies have suggested that prolonged use of the Internet is contributing to short attention spans and poor memory.
On the other hand, one can harness the potential of technology to improve attention and memory by giving access to memory games, jigsaw puzzles, crosswords, and brain training games. Mobile phones and computers can also be used to set reminders, alert usage, and monitor a child’s screen time to their benefit.
#9. Behavioural Management
Managing a child’s behaviour through behaviour modification strategies will help in increasing their desired behaviours, such as paying attention and task completion. There is always a reason for every behaviour. And every behaviour is a function of an unmet need. Therefore, using the ‘ABC Model’ to understand a child’s behaviour can help you in addressing any undesired behaviours. You can find out more about the top 10 strategies for managing behavioural problems.
Identifying children’s stressors and dealing with their worries and emotions would prevent these issues from contributing to a child’s inattention and distraction. Tackling these root causes of behaviour can help build a child’s confidence and make them feel supported and understood. Doing so will also boost their sense of belonging and improve their self-esteem.
#10. Supplements
 Polyunsaturated fatty acids such as omega-3 or not synthesised in human beings and are required in our diet. There are studies to show evidence of some benefit of omega-3 supplementation in reducing ADHD behaviours. However, I would discourage prolonged use of these supplements. There is also some evidence to show that Iron and Zinc supplementation may help reduce ADHD symptoms in children who are deficient in these minerals or are at high risk of deficiency. However, there was no evidence to show the effectiveness of Iron, Zinc and Magnesium supplements in reducing ADHD symptoms in children who were not deficient.
There is evidence to show that caffeine acts as a mild stimulant to the central nervous system and consequently, helps improve alertness and attention. I am not suggesting that young children should be given caffeine to promote their attention. Nevertheless, some adolescents may feel helped by a cup of green tea, black tea, a piece of dark chocolate or a cup of coffee. It is claimed that foods such as eggs, spinach, and blueberries boost attention span. In summary, there are several supplements that are sold and used to improve attention. However, there is no evidence of the efficacy of many of these supplements.
#11. Seek professional help
All the above strategies should help address attention difficulties and reduce easy distractibility in a child. However, should the above-mentioned non-medical measures fail to address your child’s attention difficulties fully, then you should seek professional help. Medical conditions such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), learning disability, developmental delays, vision, or hearing impairment can be the underlying cause of the child’s attention difficulties. A neurodevelopmental paediatrician will be able to assess and manage these conditions.
Medical conditions such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), learning disability, developmental delays, vision, or hearing impairment can be the underlying cause of the child’s attention difficulties. These difficulties and much more can be found out after undertaking a detailed neurodevelopmental assessment. You can find out more about neurodevelopmental assessments in my blog 10 aspects of a neurodevelopmental assessment.
As you can see from the above, attention is the first and crucial step in a child’s learning, memory, and cognition. Therefore, we do not have the luxury not to pay our attention to addressing inattention in children. The above mentioned non-medical, but well-proven strategies can be effective in promoting attention and concentration in any given child. Having correct focus and attention can help a child to realise their potential and achieve fulfilment and happiness.


What’s Good About Technology for Neurodiverse Kids
by Allison Sibley, PhD, LICSW, RPT-S
 Attention Magazine October 2024
 Download PDF
 Technology has become integral to our daily lives, transforming how we communicate, learn, and entertain ourselves. While there are valid concerns about the overuse of technology, including disrupted sleep patterns and heightened stress levels, it also holds significant benefits for neurodiverse children.
Neurodiverse children, including those with ADHD or autism, can leverage technology in ways that support their unique needs and enhance their development. This article explores the potential benefits of technology for neurodiverse children, strategies for maximizing its positive impact, and offers recommendations for healthy screen time use.
The benefits of technology for neurodivergent kids
Technology offers neurodiverse children a range of opportunities for learning, communication, and self-expression. Digital platforms provide a controlled and predictable environment that can calm autistic children, offering visual and auditory stimuli not found in traditional face-to-face interactions. Moreover, technology is a valuable learning tool, helping neurodiverse children bridge educational gaps and improve social interactions in a safe and supportive setting.
Many professionals leverage technology to support skill development in neurodivergent children. Regarding video games, Randy Kulman, PhD, a clinical child psychologist who is a proponent of neurotechnology for youth with ADHD, notes that healthy gaming can improve processing speed and working memory. However, he distinguishes between social media and gaming, highlighting that the former can be more problematic due to its variable feedback and constant availability.
Technology can be a powerful educational and therapeutic tool for neurodivergent children. Apps and games can act as learning aids, providing visual and auditory stimuli that help neurodivergent kids learn more effectively.
Additionally, they can help children develop social, communication, and cognitive skills by allowing customized learning experiences that can cater to each child’s specific needs and preferences.
Technology can offer emotional and social benefits for children with ASD and ADHD. Predictable video games and online videos can soothe neurodivergent kids. Controlled digital environments can also help children practice and improve social interactions in a safe setting. They can also provide an outlet for self-expression and independence, boosting self-esteem and confidence.
Positive aspects of technology use
In his book Unlocked: The Real Science of Screen Time (and How to Spend It Better, Pete Etchells suggests a reflective approach to managing screen time rather than an aggressive or abstinence-based approach. He highlights anecdotal evidence of video games serving as coping tools, such as his own use of gaming to cope with his father’s death.
 Similarly, in SuperBetter: The Power of Living Gamefully, Jane McGonigal explores how gaming can increase dopamine levels, enhancing motivation and self-efficacy. She emphasizes the importance of purposeful gaming, where players have clear goals and use gaming to achieve specific outcomes.
Purposeful gaming with specific objectives, rather than gaming to avoid or escape, can have positive outcomes. It can help children reflect on their gaming experiences and relate them to real-world skills and knowledge. Additionally, co-playing or multiplayer sessions can enhance social bonds and provide opportunities for teaching and guidance.
Educational apps and games can help neurodivergent children develop social skills, organizational skills, processing speed, and working memory. Choose interactive games that provide practice for social scenarios or that challenge cognitive function to improve memory.
Moreover, apps designed for task management can assist children in developing better organizational and time-management skills.
Risks and concerns
Ultimately, there is no one-size-fits-all solution for managing technology for neurodivergent children. Parents must strike a delicate balance between leveraging the benefits of technology and mitigating its potential risks. By adopting a flexible and individualized approach, parents can empower their neurodivergent children to navigate the digital world safely and responsibly.
Excessive or inappropriate screen time can have negative effects, especially for neurodivergent kids:
 
•	Sensory overload: Too much screen time can lead to sensory overload and heightened stress.
•	Sleep disruption: Screen use before bed can interfere with sleep patterns.
•	Social and language development: Overreliance on screens can hinder face-to-face social interactions and language development.
•	Worsen other issues: Excessive screen time can worsen social anxiety, personality disorders, and sensory sensitivity.
•	Decrease physical activity: When kids spend too much time watching screens, they spend less time engaging in physical activity, potentially leading to health concerns, including obesity.
It is crucial to recognize that neurodiverse youth are more prone to gaming addiction because the real world often presents challenges that make it difficult for them to grow socially, emotionally, and academically. Psychiatrist Alok Kanojia, MD, MPH, notes that seventy percent of people with ADHD develop depression, and three percent of people with depression develop ADHD, highlighting the interconnectedness of these conditions and the difficulties people with neurodivergence face.
Parents should strive to balance the risks and benefits of screen time. They should limit screen time to certain times or encourage screen-free time, ensuring children engage in a variety of activities, including physical, social, and creative play. Parents should stay involved in their children’s digital lives to monitor and guide their technology use.
Recommendations for healthy tech use
Parents play a crucial role in modeling healthy technology habits and facilitating productive screen time for their children. By establishing clear guidelines and boundaries, parents can empower neurodiverse children to navigate the digital world responsibly and effectively. Encouraging positive interactions with technology, such as co-playing and goal-oriented gaming sessions, can foster a sense of agency and empowerment in neurodiverse youth.
Dr. Kulman suggests that one hour of screen time daily is healthy, and two to three hours daily may be acceptable if the child meets other essential needs (school, friends, physical activity, sleep, and family time). More than three hours daily is risky and potentially unhealthy. See more recommendations below.
1.	Model healthy screen habits.
2.	Establish consistent rules and screen-free periods, encouraging other activities before screen time.
3.	Assess your child’s unique risks and adapt your guidelines.
4.	Remember, not all screens are equal. Certain activities or types of engagement are more productive than others.
5.	Parents can increase the productivity of screen time by considering how the skills developed by screens can impact their children.
6.	Stay informed and adjust your rules when needed.
Managing conflict around screens
Screens represent a big dilemma for parents. It’s difficult to know how strict to be regarding your kids’ screen usage. Technology disagreements create immense conflict between parents and kids, and for neurodiverse kids, this can often result in meltdowns.
Prioritizing your relationship with your child is more important than sticking to specific limits or rules. Try not to participate in any conflict regarding screens. When parents feel compelled to participate in the conflict with their kids, it’s best to stop, wait, or pull back from the argument. Parents have to learn not to argue with their kids about screens even though their kids constantly argue with them about it.
 
Encouraging positive interactions with technology, such as co-playing and goal-oriented gaming sessions, can foster a sense of agency and empowerment in neurodiverse youth.
Work on your parent-child relationship in other ways outside of screen time to ensure you are “engaged enough” with your kids. The hardest part is to figure out how not to let screens dominate and damage your relationship with your kids, which is nuanced according to your child’s own developmental needs. Absolutism around screen time usage is not that helpful for parents with kids with neurodivergence.
When you can be clear and pragmatic about your goals for technology usage with your kids and yourself and remove the conflict, you are most successful. That means learning to leverage your needs with your child’s when limiting and granting use. For instance, some kids with autism use screens as a distraction to prevent or recover from a meltdown. Other kids might be able to recover with other distracting activities. Some neurodivergent kids with social or emotional delays rely on their phones to connect in a more distanced, comfortable manner with friends. In comparison, other kids may get too heavily involved in social relationships online.
Of course, all parents can aspire to the national recommendations for low screen use for their kids. Yet, it’s important to let go of judgment and shame if you aren’t meeting these standards so you can be flexible and use compassion when working with your unique neurodiverse family situation to progress toward your goals.

ADHD can make it harder for kids to focus, finish work, and interact with others in school. This can affect how they learn and build friendships. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), about 7 million children in the U.S. between ages 3 and 17 have been diagnosed with ADHD. While these challenges can feel overwhelming, the right strategies and support can help kids with ADHD focus in school and succeed in life.
Helping children with ADHD thrive often requires expert guidance. Ellen Braaten, PhD, is a Mass General Brigham psychologist and executive director of the Learning and Emotional Assessment Program at Massachusetts General Hospital. She works with children and families to understand ADHD and learning disabilities and trains other professionals to help kids succeed. In this article, Dr. Braaten explains how ADHD affects children in school and shares practical tips for parents and teachers to help to help kids with ADHD focus.
Understanding how ADHD affects children in school
ADHD, or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, is a condition that impacts how children think, act, and manage their energy. It can make tasks like following instructions, staying focused, and sitting still much harder than they are for other kids. Dr. Braaten mentions that these difficulties are tied to three main symptoms: impulsivity, inattention, and hyperactivity. Together, these symptoms shape how children learn, interact with others, and behave in class:
•	Impulsivity. Kids might act without thinking, interrupt others, or struggle to follow instructions. This can make it hard to form friendships and get along with teachers.
•	Inattention. Children may lose focus easily, miss important details, or forget instructions. This makes it harder to complete tasks and stay organized.
•	Hyperactivity. Sitting still can feel impossible. Children might fidget, leave their seat, or disrupt the class.
Most kids with ADHD have a mix of these symptoms. For example, a child may be very hyperactive but also struggle to pay attention. These challenges can lead to frustration and low self-esteem if not addressed.
Signs a child with ADHD is struggling in school
Knowing when ADHD symptoms interfere with a child’s ability to learn or connect with others is key to providing the right support. Dr. Braaten mentions that these challenges can show up in many ways, often making school a stressful experience for both the child and those around them. Kids with ADHD may find it harder to keep up with their classmates, complete assignments, or form positive relationships.
Understanding the right signs can help parents and teachers address problems early and set children up for success. Here are some common signs to watch for:
•	Trouble completing assignments. Kids with ADHD may struggle to focus on tasks that require sustained attention, planning, or organization. They may start homework, but leave it unfinished, or forget to turn it in altogether.
•	Challenges with writing. Organizing thoughts, starting a new task, or keeping focus to finish written work can be difficult. This can make long writing assignments feel overwhelming or result in incomplete work.
•	Difficulty with reading. Many children with ADHD have trouble retaining information or staying engaged while reading due to working memory challenges. They might reread the same passage several times or lose their place in the text.
•	Social difficulties. Interrupting peers, missing social cues, or feeling excluded are common struggles. These issues can make it harder to build friendships or participate in group activities.
Many children with ADHD also have learning disabilities. In fact, up to 60% of kids with ADHD meet the criteria for a learning disability at some point, according to a study published in PLOS ONE. These combined challenges can make school feel overwhelming, but identifying them early allows parents and teachers to provide support.
 Play What are the signs of ADHD? 
ADHD accommodations at school to help kids focus
Accommodations are changes that make it easier for children with ADHD to learn and stay focused. These adjustments help reduce distractions and give kids a clear plan for completing tasks. Finding the right ADHD accommodations at school can help children build confidence and succeed in the classroom.
Dr. Braaten says it’s important to match accommodations to each child’s needs. The following accommodations can help kids stay focused and succeed in school:
•	Preferential seating. Sitting near the teacher or at the front of the room can help reduce distractions, like side conversations or hallway noise. It also makes it easier for the teacher to check in and give reminders.
•	Breaking tasks into smaller steps. Long assignments can feel overwhelming for kids with ADHD. Dividing them into smaller steps makes tasks easier to manage and helps children stay on track.
•	Repeating directions. Children with ADHD may need to hear instructions more than once. Repeating directions or providing them in writing helps ensure they fully understand what to do.
•	Flexible testing environments. Some kids focus better in a quiet space, while others may do well with soft background noise. Offering different testing environments can help children perform their best.
Accommodations should fit the needs of each child. Some kids may need extra time to complete tasks, while others might need a different strategy. Teachers and parents can work together to find what works best for the child.
ADHD classroom strategies to help kids focus
Teachers can use creative ADHD classroom strategies to help children stay engaged and organized. These approaches encourage focus and active participation:
•	Establish routines. Children with ADHD thrive in predictable environments. Having a consistent schedule for daily activities helps them feel secure and know what to expect. Clear routines also make transitions, such as moving from one subject to another, smoother and less stressful, reducing overall anxiety.
•	Use visual aids. Tools like charts, checklists, and color-coded schedules give children a clear and simple way to follow along with tasks. These aids help kids stay organized, remember what’s next, and feel more confident completing assignments independently.
•	Group work. Partnering children with ADHD with supportive peers can create a balanced dynamic where everyone contributes. This teamwork not only builds social skills, but also allows children to play to their strengths while learning how to collaborate effectively.
•	Give clear instructions. Breaking down tasks into small, manageable steps ensures that children with ADHD don’t feel overwhelmed. Making eye contact and confirming understanding can also help them focus and follow through without confusion.
•	Incorporate movement. Physical activity can help children release built-up energy and refocus their attention. Adding short movement breaks or options like standing desks lets kids manage their energy levels while staying engaged in learning.
These strategies not only support children with ADHD but also create a more inclusive classroom for all students.
Kids with ADHD often struggle not because they can’t learn, but because the way they’re asked to learn doesn’t match how their brain works. Small adjustments can lead to big successes.
Ellen Braaten, PhD
Psychologist
Mass General Brigham
How parents can support ADHD focus strategies at home
At home, parents play a key role in helping children with ADHD stay organized and focused. Using simple ADHD focus strategies can create an environment that supports their success. Here’s how to create a supportive environment:
•	Set a routine. Regular schedules reduce stress and help kids know what to expect, making transitions easier.
•	Experiment with study spaces. Some kids need quiet environments, while others focus better with light background noise or music.
•	Use visual reminders. Post schedules or to-do lists in visible places, like on the fridge or bathroom mirror, or bedroom door.
•	Reduce stress. A calm, low-stress household makes it easier for kids to focus and process information.
•	Collaborate with teachers. Share what works at home and ask for tips to create consistency between home and school.
Every child is unique, so be patient while finding the right strategies for your family.
FAQs about ADHD in children
What are the early signs of ADHD in young children?
ADHD symptoms often start to show around preschool age (3 to 5 years). Signs include:
•	Children may have a hard time switching from one activity to another.
•	They might be very active, like running around the classroom.
•	They often struggle to control their impulses.
•	They may also have trouble sleeping or settling down when it’s time to rest.
Children may also struggle to focus flexibly, meaning they find it hard to shift their attention between tasks or stop an activity when needed.
How is ADHD diagnosed in children?
ADHD assessments vary based on the provider. Pediatricians may use checklists and patient history to identify ADHD, while psychologists or psychiatrists may conduct detailed interviews and gather input from parents and teachers. Detailed tests can check for ADHD and other issues like memory, learning, and problem-solving. These tests are usually only needed if a child has other challenges, or if common strategies haven’t been helpful.
Are there non-medication strategies for managing ADHD?
Yes, many non-medication approaches can help children with ADHD. These include:
•	Exercise. Physical activity improves focus and reduces hyperactivity.
•	Sleep routines. Making sure kids get enough sleep every night is very important for managing ADHD symptoms.
•	Motivational strategies. Explaining why a task is important can help kids stay interested and engaged, even with less exciting activities.
•	Breaking tasks into smaller steps. Dividing big tasks into smaller parts can make them easier to handle and less overwhelming.
Are there specific activities or exercises that build focus in children with ADHD?
There aren’t special exercises that treat ADHD, but physical activity can help kids focus and manage their energy. Short movement breaks during school, or homework and activities like yoga or sports can be very helpful.
Helping kids with ADHD do their best
With the right support, kids with ADHD can succeed in school and in life. When parents and teachers understand how ADHD affects learning and behavior, they can create a plan that works for each child. Simple changes, like making routines, giving accommodations, and staying flexible, can make a big difference. With patience and teamwork, kids with ADHD can face challenges, build confidence, and reach their goals.

Effects of physical exercise on children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
Yuan-Shuo Chan a,∗, Jia-Tzer Jang b, Chin-Shan Ho c
•	Author information
•	Article notes
•	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC9250090  PMID: 34856393
Abstract
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most commonly neurodevelopmental disorders with a complex symptomatology in children, and frequently suffer from deficits in executive functions and motor abilities. Although medication-based treatments usually have a positive effect, possible side effects may result in a need for an adjunctive intervention. Present studies show positive effect of physical exercise on cognitive function. Therefore, the purpose of the current study is thoroughly examine the effects of physical exercise in children with ADHD. Preliminary evidence shows both acute and chronic physical exercise are beneficial to ADHD symptoms, executive function, and motor abilities. Benefits of acute exercise may gradually accumulate over time. Such benefits reflect the positive correlation between cognition and physical activity, and these benefits will also lead to changes in executive function after long-term training. Aerobic could induce to increase the neurotransmitter ie. serotonin, dopamine, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and brain blood flow. Perceptual motor and meditation could lead to neuroplasticity in nerve cells and synaptic connections; furthermore, strengthening the sensory-motor base contributes to the improvement of attention. An exercise program for children with ADHD include to moderate to high intensity interval training and cognitive tasks are suitable. The preliminary state of the evidence supports physical exercise as an adjunctive treatment for ADHD at this time.
Keywords: Aerobic, Interval training, Executive function, Tourette syndrome, ADHD
________________________________________
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders seen in the early childhood [1]. The global prevalence of the ADHD is 5.29%–7.2%, which is increasing in recent years [2]. Besides the typical symptoms of this disorder include inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity [3], it was found that children with ADHD often suffer from other comorbidities, of which the proportions of patients with ADHD combined with oppositional defiant disorder [4], conduct disorder, depression, anxiety [5] and Tourette syndrome [6] are relatively high. These children or adolescents with ADHD have impulsive behavior, reduced information-processing capacity, or inability to pay attention in class. Therefore, they are unable to complete the homework assigned by their teachers in a timely manner, which may affect their academic achievement [7]. Limited motor coordination, poor emotional regulation, low frustration tolerance, and low sleep quality causes them to encounter more difficulties in academic and interpersonal relationships than normal children [8]. Furthermore, they may feel excluded as their peers to do not interact with them, thereby developing social maladjustment and low self-confidence [9].
Currently, treatment methods for ADHD mostly involve medications, psychological counseling, and behavioral therapy. Recent many studies found that the appropriate exercise training can effectively reduce these symptoms. Studies found that acute exercise [10] and regular physical activities can induce physiological and psychological mechanisms that not only promote physical and psychological health but also improve physiological and cognitive functions, including memory and executive function [[11], [12], [13], [14]]. Based on the symptoms of ADHD (impulsiveness and hyperactivity), combining exercise training with conventional treatment can increase the benefits. Exercise can be considered as a category of physical activity and refers to planned, structured, and repetitive physical activities that can increase or maintain an individual's physical fitness [15]. Most physical activities or exercise interventions in children with ADHD are clinical rehabilitation exercises to improve the motor coordination, cognitive function, and interpersonal skills or emotional disorders [16]. Planned physical exercises are beneficial for executive function, emotional regulation, spatial memory, learning performance, mood development, and interpersonal relationships [13,17], and can induce structural and functional neuroplasticity [18] in brain.
However, the above studies mostly examined the immediate or long-term benefits of exercise intervention and less analyze the neurophysiological and neuropsychological effects of exercise model, and exercise intensity. In addition, although inattention problems in 50% of the children with ADHD improve with age, impulsivity symptoms continue into adulthood [19].
To verify the findings, we collected ADHD-related physiological and psychological abnormalities and compiled studies on the benefits of exercise in children and adolescents with ADHD to provide a conceptual mechanism on exercise intervention [[20], [21], [22]]. Hence, we compiled the benefits of exercise in ADHD from the exercise intervention studies and discussed these results based on the neurophysiological framework presented. We cautiously provided exercise training suggestions for ADHD children, including exercise duration, exercise intensity, and exercise model for reference purposes.
Exercise and neurophysiology change
The core symptom of ADHD is neuropsychological deficit. When responding to external stimuli, abnormalities in attention selection or maintenance occur, which cause response inhibition/delay. ADHD is also accompanied by neurophysiological deficits. Research on brain operation mechanisms found that ADHD is caused by physiological, structural, and functional abnormalities in the central nervous system [11]. Poor inhibitory function, dyspraxia, and spatial working memory of the central nervous system [23] are associated with insufficient dopamine and norepinephrine secretion caused by dysfunction in the frontostriatal circuits [24,25]. Moreover, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies found that ADHD is associated with poor activation of the cerebrum, thalamus, and cerebellum [26,27]. We included studies on neurophysiological improvement in ADHD caused by exercise intervention to examine it can improve these neurophysiological mechanisms.
When exercise intensity is moderate–high, the body activates neurophysiological responses to induce the synthesis of neurotransmitters, secrete brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and increase the blood flow to the brain, thereby improving neuroplasticity and enhancing information-processing capacity [28]. These effects can alleviate ADHD symptoms and their comorbidities [29] and facilitate neural growth and regulation in the brains of children with ADHD. The mechanisms by which a single-bout of exercise affects the nervous system include vagal activity and anti-pain and anti-depression neurotransmitters (such as serotonin), which are stress-decreasing hormones. Single-bout of exercises can enhance cognitive function through instantaneous neurochemical reactions, such as increasing the secretions of BNDF and the levels of synaptic proteins, glutamate receptors, and insulin-like growth factor availability, all of which seem to improve cell proliferation and neuroplasticity [30,31]. Aerobic exercise appears to have more immediate and long-term effects [21,29,31]. Tantillo et al. conducted a study on the benefits of single-bout of exercises on children with ADHD. They measured spontaneous eye blink rates, acoustic startle eye blink response, and motor inhibition to indirectly prove that single-bout of exercise at 65%–75% oxygen consumption (VO2 peak) can increase dopamine concentration in the brain [32].
Recent studies found that exercise intensity is critical for inducing neuroplasticity and BNDF secretion. A study established that lactic acid and BNDF produced by moderate–high intensity exercise is associated with neuroplasticity. In brain metabolism, lactic acid plays an extremely complex role. After moderate–high intensity exercise, peripheral lactate levels increase brain BNDF concentration, which in turn increases neuroplasticity [18].
Therefore, aerobic exercise can induce the secretin of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine in the brain, increase brain blood flow and circulation, enhance the metabolism, and activate the central nervous system. Furthermore, moderate–high intensity exercise can promote BNDF synthesis, enhance neuroplasticity, and decrease the risk of nervous system disorders.
Exercise and cognitive function change
Exercise not only improves the cognitive function in normal children but also has positive and significant effects in children with neuropsychiatric disorder [6,14,33]. Present studies showed that intervention of aerobic and exercise stretching may be helpful for cognitive function and behavior in children with ADHD and comorbid with Tourette disorders [14]. Some studies showed a trend that chronic physical exercise appears to be beneficial at higher intensity for ADHD children comorbid with Tourette syndrome; however, the effects of acute physical exercise are intensity-dependent, where low-intensity aerobic exercise may alleviate and high-intensity exercise may increase tic syndromes [34,35]. A study showed that aerobic exercise may reduce the tic frequency in children and young people with Tourette Syndrome. This finding suggests that aerobic exercise can be a useful intervention for improving self-regulation of tics, through neurophysiology change and enhancements in associated cognitive control function [35].
The immediate effects of exercise on cognitive function have attracted increasing attention in recent years. Meta-analyses found that high-intensity exercise increases wakefulness and improves various cognitive functions. However, single-bout of exercises may not result in long-term cognitive function changes or have direct effects on impulsive behaviors and learning outcomes in children with ADHD [11,36]. Among these benefits, increase in executive function is a significant immediate effect after exercise intervention. Etnier et al. conducted a study comparing 8–12-year-old children with ADHD who underwent moderate-intensity aerobic exercise and children with ADHD who watched videos for 20 min. The results indicated that the single-bout of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise can improve executive function in children with ADHD [37]. This finding shows that moderate-intensity exercise can decrease impulsive behavior and inattention in children with ADHD. Even though the immediate cognitive benefits of exercise are limited, these benefits may gradually accumulate over time. Such effects reflect the positive correlation between cognition and physical activity, and this benefit will also lead to changes in cognitive function after long-term training [11].
Drollette et al. employed electroencephalography (EEG) to observe inhibition control in children during the Flanker task test. They found that there was an immediate improvement in response conflict and the speed of stimulus classification in children who received exercise intervention. However, the degree of improvement was greater in children with lower inhibitory control capacity, and these children benefited the most from single-bout of exercises [38]. These benefits are more significant in ADHD children with inhibitory dysregulation, which means that ADHD has a pervasive and extreme characteristic. Therefore, a single-bout of exercises have greater immediate effects on cognitive functions [11]. This effect may be attributed to the fact that single-bout of moderate-intensity exercises induce regulatory and attention resources and effectively allocate them as well as decrease the load on neural activities associated with conflict detection. These effects may be amplified in children with lower cognitive functions [38].
In comparison, it was found that among ADHD children with lower inhibitory control capacity, those with higher aerobic fitness or greater activity level demonstrated a better inhibitory control. In a study, boys with ADHD were asked to wear an accelerometer for 1 week to evaluate their daily physical activity level. The results indicated that children with moderate–high physical activity had better executive function performance, which was the most significant aspect in the results of Tower of London planning task. This finding suggested that children with higher physical activity have better executive function performance in working memory, inhibitory control, and information-processing speed [39]. However, these correlations change with age. Brassell et al. found that cardiopulmonary endurance is positively correlated with inhibitory control in children with high ADHD risk. Such children have better aerobic fitness and inhibitory function and this phenomenon is more significant in younger pre-school children. However, aerobic endurance, physical fitness, and inhibitory function improve with age. Therefore, aerobic exercise intervention is also an important prevention strategy for children with ADHD risk [4].
Moreover, the duration of benefits generated by exercise is also important for lifestyle and learning strategies in children with ADHD. A single-bout of moderate intensity aerobic exercises and inhibitory control tests were performed on these children. The data showed that response accuracy and conflict detection significantly improved within 60 min after the moderate-intensity exercise regardless of the task difficulty. This result signifies that the benefits of single-bout of aerobic exercise intervention in inhibitory control can last for 60 min in children with ADHD [10].
In summary, the intervention of single-bout of exercise offers immediate and persistent benefits in cognitive function, and long-term exercise training can effectively improve overall fitness and exert long-lasting effects on cognitive function in children. A meta-analysis collected 314 studies. After screening and filtering, 31 studies were left. The results showed that exercise intervention can effectively increase the executive function in children and adolescents with ADHD (SMD = 0.611, 95% CI [0.386–0.836], p < 0.01), of which inhibitory control (g = 0.761, 95% CI [0.376, 1.146], p < 0.01) and cognitive elasticity (g = 0.780, 95% CI [0.331, 1.228], p < 0.001) demonstrated the most significant improvements. Both single bout of exercise intervention and long-term exercise training have positive benefits, and long-term moderate-intensity exercise is currently the most recommended model for children with ADHD [12,40].
Exercise model and exercise intensity
An analysis of exercise models found that both aerobic and anaerobic exercises have potential short-term and long-term benefits in cognition, social behavior, emotions, and physical/mental outcomes in patients with ADHD. Aerobic exercises seem to have a greater potential for immediate as well as long-lasting cognition and behavioral effects in children with ADHD [31]. In a study on attention and executive function in children with ADHD and normal children and adolescents, the type of exercise involved was mostly moderate-intensity cycling or treadmill exercise, and the results showed that both cycling and treadmill exercises had immediate benefits for ADHD [41]. There are many types of aerobic exercise training, and intensity is the key. Owing to the characteristics, impulsiveness, lack of motivation, impatience, and persistence of children with ADHD, interval training is the most recommended form of exercise. Therefore, the following sections are divided into aerobic interval training and anaerobic exercise. There are diverse types of anaerobic exercise, and the effects of perceptive motor training and mediation training on children with ADHD are covered in the following sections.
Aerobic with interval training
Interval training is a type of training involves repeated bouts of high intensity effort followed by varied recovery times [15]. This exercise model is suitable for natural running and jumping exercises and variable alternating fast and slow movements, which is an interesting and low-cost training method with no side effects. Clinical exercise therapy in ADHD often employs moderate–high intensity interval training and mainly uses second-maximum intensity and less time to achieve the results that are close to an aerobic training [42]. According to the definition of American College of Sports Medicine on exercise prescription, moderate intensity is 65%–75% of the maximum heart rate of an individual (220-age) [15]. When moderate-intensity exercise is performed for 20–30 min, the body will enter the aerobic exercise stage. The high intensity interval training (HIIT) refers to an exercise intensity load that is >90% of the maximal heart rate or Rated Perceived Exertion (RPE)Scale) > 17 and the intense work periods may range from 15 s to 4 min long. The recovery periods may last equally as long as the work periods (1:1 training) and are usually performed at 40%–50% of a person's estimated maximal heart rate [42]. The workout continues with the alternating work and relief periods about 20 min.
Boys with ADHD aged 7–15 years were given a single session of high-intensity training (HIIT) with two times 10-min sessions with a 1-min break in between, and the results showed that 20 min of high-intensity exercise significantly improved cognitive function and sustained attention [28]. When the exercise intensity was moderately high, ADHD symptoms and other comorbidities significantly decreased [29]. This result shows that short periods of HIIT can effectively increase attention, decrease impulsivity, and improve some cognitive functions in children with ADHD. However, long periods of HIIT also improved physical fitness, motor coordination, self-confidence, and interpersonal relationships in boys with ADHD, particularly subjective attention [22] and response inhibition function [43].
To increase the motivation and participation of children with ADHD, the content of exercise training should include game elements and employ psychological techniques. It is also important to provide words of affirmation and positive encouragement [16,44]. Therefore, some studies employed combined exercise training to increase training completion in children ADHD. In a study on 37 children with ADHD aged 8–11 years, 8 weeks of combined exercise training was given. The training course included perceptual motor training and 20 min of moderate-intensity interval training. After 8 weeks, complex information processing capacity and executive function improved significantly in children with ADHD [21]. Another study provided 8 weeks of aquatic exercise to children with ADHD (twice a week, 90 min per session). The results showed that accuracy and motor skill coordination, which are related to impulsivity tests, improved significantly in the exercise group after the intervention. This result showed that planned quantitation and qualitative exercise improve inhibition behavior in children with ADHD [45]. Therefore, the planning of exercise model and exercise intensity based on age, behavioral characteristics, and motor skills of children with ADHD have positive effects on attention and executive function.
Perceptive motor training and meditation
Perceptive motor training is an exercise training model that is often performed in children. The primary objective of perceptive motor training is to promote coordination between the perception system and motor control, emphasize sensory stimulation, train the vestibular sensation and proprioception, tactility, judgment of visual and auditory spaces, regulation of muscle tension changes, and visuomotor coordination. The input of diverse perceptual information to the central nervous system during exercise organizes and integrates sensory information, which leads to neuroplasticity in nerve cells and synaptic connections; furthermore, strengthening the sensory-motor base contributes to the attention performance [44]. A study was conducted on 14 children with ADHD with a mean age of 8 years, where subjects underwent 30 min of rhythmic dancing. The content of the activity was to dance along with music and included vestibular, balance, tactile, proprioceptive, and rhythmic movement elements. This exercise emphasized physical coordination and rhythm, and the exercise intensity was 60% of the maximum heartbeat. The results found that attention was improved in children with ADHD after the rhythmic movements [36].
The effects of mindfulness and mediation on emotional regulation and attention have attracted immense attention in recent years. Some studies examined the effects of mindfulness training or mediation on ADHD children and found that the attention, awareness, and self-control ability of children with ADHD are significantly improved after the trainings of mindfulness and mediation [46,47]. Two meta-analyses were performed, and one of them collected 4 studies on the benefits of mediation, relaxation training, and yoga in 83 children with ADHD. Owing to the limited number of studies, small sample size, and the high risk of bias, a conclusion on the effectiveness of mediation on ADHD could not be reached [48]. The other study compiled 16 studies and performed a meta-analysis. The results found that many studies did not employ a control group, and a conclusion on the benefits of mindfulness and mediation on ADHD could not be reached [49]. There are many non-drug intervention methods for ADHD, but empirical studies are required to ascertain if there is evidence for efficacy. Che et al. (2021) compiled 83 independent studies on ADHD involving 4996 subjects and 14 non-drug treatments in a meta-analysis. These studies included (1) mediation and awareness; (2) exercise training; (3) vitamins and mineral supplements; and (4) cognitive behavioral therapy. The results found that physical exercise training is effective and has the most stable effects in improving the symptoms of attention deficit. This method was followed by mediation, cognitive therapy, and cognitive behavioral therapy, which are effective auxiliary tools [50].
In summary, lifestyle arrangements such as physical activities or exercise are very important in children with ADHD, which includes those suspected of high-risk ADHD and those with lower cognitive processing speed. Systematic and planned moderate-high exercise courses should be administered as soon as possible [17,19]. These interventions may help alleviate inattention, hyperactivity/impulsivity symptoms, and problems in interpersonal interactions to enhance the adaptivity of the students in learning.
Conclusion
Appropriate exercise intervention can not only augment the sensorimotor skills but also increase self-confidence and improve communication and social interaction skills in children. Exercise is an important tool for children with ADHD in the developmental phase. Aerobic exercise or perceptual motor training is beneficial to children with ADHD. Both single-bout and long-term exercises can improve the blood flow to the brain, enhance information processing capacity and attention, decrease impulsiveness, and increase inhibitory control, thereby improving interpersonal relationships. With regard to exercise prescription, planned and combined exercise courses should be selected, and the contents should emphasize exercise intensity and perceptual motor exercises combined with cognitive tasks (such as motor planning skills) [51]. The teaching plan should include game content. This approach can effectively improve the perceptual and cognitive functions of children with ADHD.
We hope that the purpose of current studies is attracting more scientific attention to the topic and provides important directions for future researches by establishing a positive effect of exercise. If the effects of precise exercise for ADHD are better substantiated in the future, we expect to have a powerful complementary or alternative treatment. Finally, it is recommended that for children suspected of having a high risk for ADHD, appropriate exercise training can be integrated into the overall ADHD intervention plan.

The notion that physical activity has a positive impact on ADHD isn’t new, but a recent study showing regular physical activity decreased the severity of ADHD symptoms and improved cognitive functioning in children has a lot of people talking about the future of exercise as a treatment for ADHD.
Betsy Hoza, PhD, professor of psychology at the University of Vermont and lead author on the study, says that the idea for the study came from a friend of hers who teaches elementary school and mentioned how much periods of in-school exercise seemed to help her ADHD students. She suggested Dr. Hoza and her colleagues investigate. “That made such intuitive sense,” says Dr. Hoza, “I was honestly a little surprised no one had documented it previously.”
The results were promising. Dr. Hoza and her colleagues found that for kids between kindergarten and second grade, as little as a half hour a day of moderate to vigorous exercise had a positive, measurable impact on their focus and mood. The results were similar for kids with the impulsive-hyperactive type of ADHD and those with the more inattentive type.
So what does this mean for parents and kids with ADHD?
The importance of evidence
For many parents looking for alternatives to ADHD medication, studies like this can be a beacon of hope. When non-pharmacological treatments for ADHD get press, they are sometimes hyped as cure-alls, so it’s important to take a closer look at the facts to see what they can, and can’t, truly offer.
In this case, the results of the study were promising but Dr. Hoza says it’s not time to stop using traditional ADHD interventions just yet. “When I talk to parents I say, ‘You need to know what the evidence-based treatments are and right now that’s stimulant medication, behavioral therapy and their combination,’” she explains.
The bottom line: Exercise isn’t a miracle cure for ADHD, but it can make a contribution to a child’s functioning better and feeling better, and it’s definitely something worth trying.
A do-no-harm intervention
What Dr. Hoza can say for sure is that exercise definitely doesn’t hurt. “It’s important to note that there is absolutely NO reason why a parent can’t add physical activity to the treatment they’re already using,” she says. “Unless a child has a physical challenge that would be exacerbated by activity, exercise is a do-no-harm intervention.”
While the findings regarding the impact of exercise on ADHD were most notable, Dr. Hoza says that that all the kids in the study — the group at risk for ADHD as well as the typically developing control group who were also participating in the half-hour exercise program — showed improved cognitive functioning.
Good habits, good health
This, Dr. Hoza says, is the most vital point. “The most important message is that physical activity is important for children’s development regardless of whether you have ADHD or not,” she says. “There’s other research that suggests it has cognitive benefits for all children and we all know the physical benefits.”
She’s right. According to the CDC, kids who get moving have lower rates of obesity, anxiety and stress, and are less prone to health problems later in life. Exercising during childhood also helps them build good habits that will follow them into adulthood.
The “I” in team
This is great news for kids who have a great time playing sports or running outside but for some parents, getting kids to exercise isn’t always so easy.
For a lot of kids, including some with ADHD or other learning challenges, gym class — if they still have it — is the worst part of the day. Organized sports are minefields of potential embarrassment for kids who struggle to remember multi-step directions, aren’t comfortable with physical contact or just aren’t as coordinated as their peers. Making exercise appealing to children who’d rather sit in the bleachers is a challenge.
“It’s really important for parents to pay attention to what kind of activity they’re enrolling their child in,” says Dr. Hoza. “In today’s world there are so many children’s sports that are very competitive, and those wouldn’t be the best choice for kids with ADHD who have a hard time following directions or might not be as coordinated as their peers.”
Many ways to get moving
If a child isn’t comfortable participating in team sports, look for noncompetitive activities that raise the heart rate without putting them in potentially stressful situations.
•	Look into other kinds of activities such as swimming, track, fencing or martial arts.
•	Talk with teachers about integrating more noncompetitive physical activities into the school day. Exercise doesn’t have to be limited to gym class!
•	Help your child find something that suits them. Kids who find activities they enjoy are more likely to participate willingly and stay active as they get older.
•	It’s easy to integrate exercise into daily life at home. Family bike rides, brisk walks to school or even just a simple game of tag in the yard can get everyone moving without the pressure of an organized activity.
So exercise isn’t necessarily the whole solution for a child who’s struggling with ADHD, but it can have a positive effect on concentration, and it is a vital part of healthy physical and mental development for all kids. “I just can’t think of a good reason not to have our kids exercising,” says Hoza.

Thanks to a growing number of studies involving youth with autism –  we can confidently say that physical activity provides them with a wide range of benefits.
The phrase “exercise is medicine” is a common refrain among fitness experts and health practitioners. A wealth of research gives credence to this truism. And now – thanks to a growing number of studies involving youth with autism – we can confidently say that physical activity provides them with a wide range of benefits.
 
Benefits of physical activity in autistic youth
I recently published the results of my team’s meta-analysis of 29 studies looking at the benefits of exercise among more than a thousand young people on the autism spectrum. In a meta-analysis, we combine the findings of multiple studies to gain a deeper and more reliable picture of a potential effect of an intervention.
Overall, we found that physical activity programs for youth with autism produced moderate to large benefits in a variety of important areas. These include improving motor skills, skill-related fitness, social functioning and muscular strength and endurance.
•	Social skills: Our meta-analysis showed that youth who participated in physical activity programs designed for individuals with autism showed significant gains in their social and communication skills. The activities included horseback riding, various types of group play, running/jogging programs and exergaming (e.g. Nintendo Wii and other electronic games that involve physical activity).
o	Researchers have considered why physical activity improves social skills. When designed appropriately, physical activity programs can provide a fun, safe setting for interacting with other children. In other words, they can offer excellent opportunities for practicing social skills. In addition, activities involving animals (e.g. horseback riding) provide children with a fun way to interact nonverbally as well as verbally.
•	Fitness: It’s very encouraging that our analysis confirmed that youth on the spectrum significantly improved their muscular strength and endurance by participating in programs such as exergaming, aquatic exercise and horseback riding. This is particularly important as we knew from previous studies that people with autism tend to have poorer muscular strength and endurance than is typical for their age. Strength and endurance are important for not only physical health, but also for taking advantage of social opportunities that involve physical activity including recreational sports and non-structured games.
 
•	Skill-related fitness: Many individuals with autism have lower fitness skills compared to other people. These skills include balance, body coordination, visual-motor control and other mobility skills. Here again, we were encouraged to find that many types of physical activities improve skill-related fitness for youth with autism. These activities included computer-based exergaming, jumping on a trampoline (with supervision and safety barriers), motor skill training (e.g. table tennis) and horseback riding.
•	Motor skills: Many kinds of physical activities – and the social opportunities they afford – require what we call “fundamental motor skills.” These basic skills include running, throwing, catching and so on. Again, our analysis showed that exercise programs significantly improved these skills among youth with autism.
Strategies for encouraging physical activity
Research and our clinical experience have helped us understand and address many autism-related barriers to enjoyable participation in physical activity.
It's important to consider aversions. Recently I encouraged a boy with autism to play alongside his peers during recess. He replied, “I don’t think you could design a worse place for me to be!” I got it. I was asking him to enter a setting that was social, active, loud and unpredictable – all qualities he disliked.
Several issues make physical activity less appealing for many people with autism. These include poor social and motor skills, a preference for screen-based activities, and a lack of exercise partners and autism-friendly opportunities for physical activity in our communities. The good news: We have strategies to help.
1. Start small
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that children get at least an hour of physical activity daily. That’s good to know, but I suggest starting with a more modest goal and building from there.
We’ve found that shorter periods of physical activity, spaced throughout the day, tend to be easier to maintain. Remember: The goal is to make physical activity a regular and enjoyable part of daily life. So, be patient and think long term.
 
Here are some ways to add physical activity into a daily routine:
•	Walking to school (or work) – or at least some of the way.
•	Walking the dog (if you have one).
•	Turn TV advertisements into exercise breaks. I recommend a few minutes of a rigorous activity such as jumping jacks. Join your child in the fun.
•	Make a family trip to the playground a regular, after-dinner activity. If you can walk there, even better.
I recommend gradually expanding the amount of time spent in these and other activities – with the aim of ultimately achieving the recommended daily hour of physical activity.
2. Build motor skills
Keep in mind that your child will need to build some fundamental motor skills to successfully participate in physical activities and sports.
You can make this skill-building enjoyable by playing games that encourage your child to:
 
•	Move in different ways (e.g. run, jump, hop, and skip)
•	Play with different types of equipment such as balls, bats and racquets (e.g. throw, catch, kick and strike).
Practicing these skills at home can foster your child’s success in physical education class, while increasing the likelihood that he or she will enjoy other socially engaging physical activities such as playground games and recreational sports.
3. Sample different types of physical activity
Our analysis identified a wide range of activities that can deliver benefits. From table-tennis to swimming, from riding bikes to riding horses, there’s an abundance of physical activities that you or your child can try. I suggest sampling from the menu.
Ideally, include one or more activities that encourage:
•	Fitness. An activity that involves moderate to vigorous activity – activity that gets a person breathing heavily.
•	Social interaction. An activity that involves one or more other people, such as tennis or catch.
•	Independence. An activity that can be done alone, such as a home fitness or yoga routine – perhaps with the help of a video.
4. Be a role model and enlist friends and family
As a parent, you are the most important role model for your child. I encourage you to model an active lifestyle for your child. Show them the enjoyment and value you gain from being active.
Next, consider the many people who interact with your child on a daily or weekly basis and how might you enlist them to encourage your child’s physical activity.
Teachers, especially physical education teachers, can be a great influence. Share your aspirations and strategies for your child. If your child has an Individualized Education Plan (IEP), be sure to include physical education goals in your IEP discussions. If possible, invite the PE teacher to attend the IEP meeting.
Also consider contacting the people who run recreational sports programs in your community. Some may worry that they lack the skills to engage and include someone with autism in their programs. You may be able to give them the confidence they need by sharing your strategies for communicating, motivating, and instructing your child.
5. Make sure the physical activities autism-friendly
Here are three practical strategies commonly used in activity programs designed for youth who have autism:
•	Someone who understands. Ideally, we want people with autism – especially children and teens – to have access to physical activity programs led by facilitators who understand how to communicate and motivate participants in autism-friendly ways. This doesn’t have to be a professional in the field of autism. It can even be a “peer tutor” – another child who understands how to communicate with your child and can provide some one-on-one support.
•	Routine. Most of us need routine, and this appears to be especially true for many people on the spectrum. I suggest building a regular and predictable structure into the physical activity program. Create a visual schedule to help reinforce the routine.
•	Get visual. Many people with autism are visual learners. Visual supports such as task cards, physical demonstrations and video modelling often prove very helpful.
Looking forward
We would like to see more research on the benefits of exercise for people on the autism spectrum and on the type and duration of activity that provides the greatest benefits. We also want to improve how we tailor and personalize physical activity programs to each participant needs and goals.
Most importantly, perhaps, we need to understand how to promote lifetime physical activity for people who have autism.
Meanwhile, we hope that our encouraging findings will inspire fitness practitioners, physical-education teachers and parents to engage children, teens and adults with autism in a wide range of activities. The benefits appear to be tremendous.

Boosting Strength, Balance and Social Skills in Kids With Autism
Children and teens on the autism spectrum may need an extra jolt of motivation to sustain a moderate fitness routine. Promoting healthy physical activity in any adolescent can be downright difficult. Physical exercise can especially benefit adolescents and teens with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). To start, adolescents and teens with ASD tend to be less active compared with their age-related peers.
Patients with autism may have physical impairments and socio-behavioral issues which affect academics and school participation. Kids may have difficulties with communication, limited social interaction and impaired balance or motor skills. Types of exercises can help a child with autism feel fitter, stronger and more confident. 
Positive effects of exercise on children with autism
Physical activity releases feel-good hormones called endorphins, which can promote a sense of well-being and reduce many symptoms of anxiety.  
According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), more reasons to encourage exercise for adolescents and teens with autism:
•	Balance, coordination
•	A healthier heart 
•	Muscle tone, motor skills
•	Fewer mood swings
•	Less hyperactivity 
•	Social engagement
•	Mental concentration 
•	Feelings of calmness
•	Leaner body weight 
•	Muscle and joint flexibility 
•	Better posture
Exercises to calm the mind and body
In a fitness class setting, gym sessions or school sports, teens with autism can practice sports-related skills such as increasing peer communication and reducing problem behaviors. The emotional benefits of moderate physical activity (most days of the week) also enhance cognitive function and mental well-being.
Most of us need routine and habit to continue exercising, and this appears to be especially true for children on the spectrum. You may have to help your child and their teachers to build a regular and predictable exercise routine. Create a calendar or visual aids to remind your student of weekly routines. 
Researchers have considered why physical activity improves social skills: When designed appropriately, physical activity programs can provide a fun, comfortable  setting for interacting with other children. In addition, activities involving animals (like horseback riding) provide children with a fun way to interact nonverbally and learn about compassion and empathy.
Helping kids with autism become more active and healthy
It’s up to teachers, parents and caregivers to help guide the person with autism toward the types of energetic activities that improve agility, reaction time, balance and other skill-related fitness benefits. 
Research indicates short bursts of high-energy activity (with supervision and safety precautions) may work best to sustain their interest, including:
•	Computer virtual reality exergaming 
•	Walking and running around a track 
•	Jumping on a trampoline
•	Table tennis and badminton 
•	Fitness videos and dancing  
Teachers, especially physical education teachers, can be a great influence and help children with autism feel more confident about their abilities and physicality. The mind and body benefits of regular exercise for kids with autism appears to be tremendous.
Physical activity can improve the mental health and well-being not only for the child with autism – but for the whole family.  
ASD is a complex neurological and developmental disorder that begins early in life and affects how a person acts, learns and interacts with others. Exercising regularly can make a big difference in mood, self-esteem and resilience.
Foundations Behavioral Health is dedicated to providing behavioral health treatments and academic services to children, adolescents, and young adults diagnosed with autism. Our ASD services deliver integrated programs that draw on progressive, evidence-based practices. 

Positive effects of physical activity in autism spectrum disorder: how influences behavior, metabolic disorder and gut microbiota
Annaluisa Ranieri 1,†, Cristina Mennitti 2,†, Noemi Falcone 1,2, Ilaria La Monica 1,2, Maria Rosaria Di Iorio 1,2, Lorella Tripodi 1,2, Alessandro Gentile 2, Maria Vitale 1, Raffaella Pero 2,3, Lucio Pastore 1,2, Valeria D’Argenio 1,4, Olga Scudiero 1,2,3,*, Barbara Lombardo 1,2
•	Author information
•	Article notes
•	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC10681626  PMID: 38025444
Abstract
Autism spectrum disorder is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by social interactions and communication skills impairments that include intellectual disabilities, communication delays and self-injurious behaviors; often are present systemic comorbidities such as gastrointestinal disorders, obesity and cardiovascular disease. Moreover, in recent years has emerged a link between alterations in the intestinal microbiota and neurobehavioral symptoms in children with autism spectrum disorder. Recently, physical activity and exercise interventions are known to be beneficial for improving communication and social interaction and the composition of microbiota. In our review we intend to highlight how different types of sports can help to improve communication and social behaviors in children with autism and also show positive effects on gut microbiota composition.
Keywords: physical activity, autism spectrum disorder, gut microbiota, obesity, behavior
Introduction
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is represented by a range of heterogeneous neurodevelopmental conditions characterized by impairments in social interactions and communication skills and the presence of repetitive and stereotypical behaviors and interests (1). In the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-V) ASD includes classic autism, Asperger’s syndrome, Rett’s disorder, Childhood Disintegrative Disorder, and Pervasive Developmental Disorder – Not Otherwise Specified (PDD-NOS) (2). In recent years, the use of Array Comparative Genomic Hybridization (a-CGH) and whole exome/genome sequencing (WES/WGS) have enabled the molecular characterization of patients with ASD by identifying of copy number variations (CNVs) or single nucleotide variants (SNVs) in genes with a crucial role in the development of the central nervous system (CNS) (3–9). Autistic children exhibit impairments in social interaction, such as low eye contact, relational problems, and delays in verbal and nonverbal communication. Stereotypical behaviors and interests in children with ASD may include adherence to inflexible routines and motor stereotypies, such as hand flapping or body rocking (10). In addition, they can present cognitive and behavioral disorders that include attention difficulties, intellectual disability, anxiety, depression, aggression, and self-injurious behaviors (2). As for sensory disorders, autistic children can have difficulty in modulating tactile, auditory, visual, and vestibular inputs, with hypo-reactivity or hyper-reactivity to stimuli, and show comorbid systemic conditions such as gastrointestinal problems, food sensitivity, obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease (10) (Figure 1). The Early Intensive Behavioral Intervention (EIBI) is a therapy that promotes learning, skill development, and behavior change through small steps that are easier to learn. In particular, in recent years, the possible role of the intestinal microbiota has emerged as a co-factor in the development of ASD, as a correct two-way communication between the intestine and the brain allows to regulate development and functions of the central nervous system. Indeed, several studies have demonstrated a connection between changes in the composition of the gut microbiota and the gastrointestinal and neurobehavioral symptoms found in autistic children (11). Moreover, in these subjects has been observed greater motor abnormalities, less coordination and postural impairments in static and dynamic balance. Thus, behavioral interventions are important in early ASD management to help individuals with autism to improve their quality of life in later years (1). The Early Intensive Behavioural Intervention (EIBI) is a therapy that promotes learning, skill development and behavior change through small steps that are easier to learn. In particular, in recent years, physical activity and exercise interventions are known to be beneficial for decreasing repetitive behaviors, improving communication and social interaction, reducing motor trouble and improving in working memory and meta-cognition (12, 13). The aim of this review was to show and analyze how different types of sports can help to correct stereotypical behaviors, improve motor skills, and overcome the difficulties of communication and social interaction in children with ASD. In particular, sport can act on sensory dysfunction situations, since the body can constantly receive different external stimuli through exercise. In fact, the eyes, ears, skin and nose are fully utilized during the exercise (14). Rich flows of sensory information in the brain activate the nervous system, promote the development of different areas of the nervous system, improve the sensory interaction capacity of the brain, improve motor skills, show positive effects on gut microbiota composition, and could help to enhance the quality of life for autistic patients with different sports such as swimming, minibasket, horse riding and karate (14).
Figure 1.
 
Open in a new tab
Schematic representation of main features in children with ASD. Children ASD-affected show several neurological and motor impairments such as intellectual disabilities, repetitive behaviors, communication impairments, and motor deficit. Furthermore, the main comorbidities are gastrointestinal disorders, food sensitivities, obesity, and cardiovascular diseases.
Obesity and related commorbidity in autistic children
Children with ASD are often exposed at an increased risk of developing overweight or obesity (15). Since 2019, it has been estimated that over 150 million children in the world are obese and that this will increase to 206 million by 2025 (16, 17). A meta-analysis by Sammels et al. revealed that the prevalence of obesity among children with ASD was 17%, and the children with ASD had a 58% greater risk of developing obesity compared with neurotypical children (18).
Knowledges on the relationship between obesity and autism are still uncertain. Although many of the risk factors for children with autism are likely the same as for the general pediatric population, there are unique factors implicated in the development of obesity in children with autism such as atypical eating patterns, physical inactivity, sleep disorders, psychopharmacological treatment, and genetics. In particular, the diet of autistic children is characterized by a preference for energy-dense foods, sugary drinks and snacks, with a rather limited consumption of vegetables (19). Moreover, children with ASD spend a lot of time in sedentary activities, such as watching TV, playing video games, and using social media (20).
The use of medications, as part of a treatment aimed at improving the management of problematic behavioral aspects of autism, can have undesirable effects. In recent years, typical and atypical antipsychotics are widely used in children with autism as an adjunct to antidepressants. Atypical antipsychotics, such as aripiprazole, clozapine, olanzapine, provide significant benefit in reducing the frequency of extrapyramidal symptoms. However, these second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are involved in weight gain (21). It has been seen that the use of SGAs in children is responsible for an increased risk of developing obesity and lipid abnormalities; these results are very significant since SGAs represent a first-line treatment in children with irritability associated with ASD (22).
Some children with ASD may also have a genetic predisposition to obesity: some microdeletions, such as 11p14.1 or 16p11.2, have been identified as responsible for this increased vulnerability (23, 24).
Autism has been observed to be associated with an increased risk of obesity-related conditions, such as type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and metabolic liver disease. Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic disease characterized by hyperglycemia and disorders of carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism. There are three main forms of DM: Type 1 (T1DM), Type 2 (T1DM) and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). T1DM is an autoimmune pathology, dependent on an alteration of the immune system, which involves the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells; T2DM occurs as a result of insulin resistance with an alteration in the amount or function of insulin; finally, gestational diabetes is a metabolic disorder that occurs during pregnancy. Some researchers have hypothesized a possible link between autism and diabetes, although the underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood. Several conditions such as Turner and Down syndromes appear to be responsible for a higher risk of T2DM in autistic individuals (25, 26), as well as the use of psychotropic drugs that lead to weight gain (20). Another possible mechanism is the elevated secretion of cytokines such as IL-1 and IL-6 in autistic subjects compared to healthy controls (27, 28), as in those with T1DM (29) and T2DM (30). Increased cytokine secretion and impaired immune function could contribute to pancreatic beta-cell destruction, resulting in the clinical expression of hyperglycemia. Regarding to GDM, possible factors connecting intrauterine hyperglycemia and the risk of autism in the unborn child may include oxidative stress (31), hypoxia (32), chronic inflammation (33), and epigenetics (34). In addition, diabetes mellitus gestational age is often accompanied by maternal obesity, which was associated with positive autism screening results in very preterm infants in a recent study (35).
Several studies have highlighted an altered cholesterol metabolism in patients with ASD (36, 37). At the brain level, cholesterol plays a fundamental role. It is in fact involved in numerous processes, such as neuronal development and function, synaptogenesis and myelination, formation of axons and dendrites. Furthermore, it is an important component of the membranes of neurons and is mainly located on the synaptic vesicles. Since plasma lipoproteins are unable to cross the blood brain barrier (BBB), cholesterol must be synthesized in the brain. Cholesterol is also responsible for the correct function of neurotransmitter, and an its impaired metabolism could cause brain dysfunction (38). On this basis, hypotheses concerning a possible relationship between autism and alterations of cholesterol metabolism have been advanced. A study conducted by Benachenhou et al. investigated changes in the lipid profile in a French-Canadian population with autism compared with a population of healthy individuals (36). The results showed that the autistic population has higher risk of developing hypocholesterolemia than healthy subjects and low total cholesterol levels have been associated with the development of symptoms of anxiety and depression.
Physical activity and improvement of quality of life: swimming, karate, minibasket, and horse riding
Sedentary lifestyle is typical for individual with intellectual disabilities. Individuals affected by autism are physically inactive both due to lack of motivation or interest in physical activity, and because participation requires motor and social skills that sometimes in autism syndrome lack. In the last decade, numerous studies have focused their attention on the effect of physical activity in individuals with autism, showing that specific physical activity induces improvements in behavior, health and motor skills (39, 40). Regular physical activity is a way to promote brain function and has many positive health effects. Exercise specifically made a significant difference in the symptomatology of ASD individuals and different physical activities can affect different biological mechanisms. However, it is still unclear exactly what neuronal processes contribute to the therapeutic effects of exercise (41). Some beneficial physical activities are described below (Figure 2).
Figure 2.
 
Open in a new tab
Physical activity ameliorates communication and social behaviors. Swimming, karate, minibasket, and horse riding in children with ASD stimulate different areas of the brain acting on cognitive, behavioral, and motor skills.
Swimming
Physical activity allows you to lead a healthy lifestyle, in fact, several studies have shown positive effects on motor skills and positive behavioral aspects in autistic children even with swimming. Swimming activities revealed to be efficacious to train psychomotor skills and increase adaptive behaviors in children with ASD (42). Several studies investigate the change in motor and behavioral aspects before and after a swimming program for autistic children (43–46). In particular, Battaglia et al. examine the efficacy of aquatic therapy on gross motor and social skills in three adolescents with ASD. The study showed that the aquatic training program was effective to enhance object control and locomotors skills in the analyzed subjects (43). This has also been proved by other studies that showed how exercises in water were effective to develop physical fitness and aquatic orientation and improve several aspects of gross motor proficiency, such as conditional (aerobic capacity, muscle strength, and speed) and coordination skills, in individuals with typical and atypical development (45, 47). As regards the behavioral and social skills, different studies showed that children with ASD had an increased eye contact, engaging in appropriate conversation with peers and instructors and following class rules and class routines (43, 47). Moreover, in Chien-Yu Pan’s study was reported a significant improvement in self-esteem, social interactions and motor skills was reported in children after 10 weeks of aquatic activities. It also highlighted a greater capacity for achievement and self-esteem of children with ASD (44). In fact, hydrotherapy represents a potential practice that would improve the relational, emotional and social integration aspects in individuals affected by ASD (48). In fact, during swimming, all muscles in the body are activated, afferent nerve stimuli to the CNS come from the proprioceptors of muscle fibers, and after processing, the CNS directs the impulses through the efferent fibers to the muscles. Therefore, swimming induces complex adaptations of the nervous system and promotes the transmission of neural impulses (49). However, there are no data in the literature explaining the biological mechanisms whose changes lead to improvements after a swimming program in children with ASD. However, a study conducted by Xu et al. on Shank3 knockout mice that had deficits in social memory, spatial memory, and object recognition showed that a swimming program improves learning and memory, hippocampal neural development, and plasticity in Shank3 knockout mice (50). In particular, several studies have reported that swimming improves spatial learning and memory in rats, this effect could be related to the action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on brain plasticity (51, 52). In light of these studies, further research is needed to better understand the biological mechanisms that regulate the effect of swimming on children with ASD.
Karate
Exercise not only improves physical condition but also reduces maladaptive behavioral patterns of people with ASD (53). In a study conducted by Bahrami, a karate-based training program was observed to significantly reduce communication difficulties in autistic children. Specifically, participants were (N = 30; 26 male) students aged 5–16 who had a previous diagnosis of ASD. These subjects were randomly divided into two groups: 15 ASD subjects who were assigned an exercise program and 15 ASD control subjects without an exercise program (54). Participants in the exercise condition were shown a sequence of rapid movements typical of martial arts in which athletes move in different directions in space to counter invisible opponents, to be reproduced in 56 sessions spread over 14 weeks. The results showed an improvement of the relational aspects in the autistic subjects involved in the karate sessions (54). Considering important new findings from psychology and neuroscience, it was proposed a neurobiological mechanism for these benefits. Several studies show that karate techniques develop postural motor functions, spatial orientations, and impact vestibular signaling patterns that challenge the hippocampus and enhance neurogenesis through the secretion of neurotrophins such as BDNF (54–56). One of the well-documented mechanisms includes increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels. BDNF plays a pivotal role in neurological function, neurogenesis, survival regulation and neuronal differentiation, such as axonal pathways regulation, dendritic density, and synaptic plasticity. Additionally, the increase of BDNF was related to the improvements in memory and learning ability (57) and it was considered a key factor in a variety of neurodevelopmental disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. In the rat, brain BDNF promotes survival and sprouting of serotonergic axons and axonal growth of damaged serotonergic neurons. In vitro and in vivo studies support a regulatory role of BDNF in the survival and maturation of serotonergic neurons. BDNF has also been shown to modulate serotonergic neurotransmission in vitro, promote survival and differentiation of some cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons in vitro, and BDNF administration increases serotonin synthesis and/or turnover in vivo (55). The relation between BDNF alteration and neurological disorders suggest that BDNF could be consider a valid biomarker and therapeutic factor (58). Furthermore, serum BDNF levels was correlated with the severity of symptoms for young people with ASD. Several studies suggest BDNF as a mediator of the relationship between exercise and associated cognitive benefits, indeed, BDNF is upregulated up to 7 days after exercise (59) and the inhibition of BDNF receptors showed the reduction of the cognitive benefits associated with physical exercise (60). It has been reported that the karate practice induces the increase of the BDNF leading the amelioration of neuronal plasticity and recovering of the child’s neurological abilities (54).
Minibasket
In autistic children, in the interpersonal relationships area, there may be attitudes of extreme isolation, closure and indifference in the face of human interactions and relationships with others. Among physical exercise programs, minibasket has a significant effect on improving integration and social communication (61). Minibasket, designed for children under 12, parallel to the physical and mental development of children and the development of executive functions, has the intrinsic characteristics of basketball, a sport that unites, relates, creates opportunities contact and stimulates new knowledge (61).
A study by Yang et al. showed how 12 weeks of minibasket, conducted on 30 autistic preschool children, significantly enhanced cognitive function, interpersonal skills and neural mechanism. Therefore, the improvement in the cognitive and social skills of preschool children with ASD could be attributed to the repetition in the movements of the teachers during the training sessions, which promote the social skills of the children while learning motor skills in minibasket (61). Indeed, the imitation process could improve the relational skills and social integration of these individuals (62). In minibasket, children must learn new movements and coordinate in team play, which requires a high level of control and cognition. As reported in literature the exercise can induce plasticity changes increasing functional connectivity of the executive control network between the right cerebellum and the left inferior frontal gyrus. These features were found in preschool children with ASD after 12 weeks of minibasket training program. Further studies have shown that the cerebellum is a key brain region involved in motor function such as coordination and balance (63, 64). In addition, it has been demonstrated, the amelioration of functions including memory, social interactions, and repetitive behavior after a 12 weeks in autistic children. These improvements probably are due to changes in BDNF leves in serum or plasma (65–67). More research is needed to study and clarify the neurobiological mechanisms that occurs in amelioration of physic and behavioral in children ASD affected.
Horse riding
An interesting role for the develop of properly social interaction in autistic children, involved the therapy with animals and especially horses (68). Therapeutic riding was used to improve posture, balance, and mobility during the development, as well as establishing intimate interaction between subject and horse (69). In recent years, the interesting in equine therapy has grown, indeed, several studies have shown an improvement in social motivation and sensory sensitivity, as well as decreased inattention and distractibility (70). The study by Anderson et al. evaluates the effects of a 5 weeks equestrian therapy program on the social functioning of children or adolescents (N = 15) with ASD (71). The results confirmed that the riding increased empathy and reduced maladaptive behaviors, while specific adaptive behaviors such as socialization and communication were not affected by the intervention. In summary, the equine therapy does not change the entire behavior of the child but it can improve specific aspects of social function and reduce the maladaptive traits of ASD (72). Despite horse-riding does not change a child’s behavior, it can improve specific social function reducing the dysfunctional ASD traits, such as irritability and stereotyped behaviors (72). Although the mechanism is not completely clear, in some studies, it has been reported that the alteration of serotonin, dopamine, and GABA levels correlate with worsening of stereotypic behaviors (73). Therefore, rhythmic horse movements and prolonged contact with nature stimulates vestibular system that, in turn ameliorate the neurotransmitters production improving body coordination and emotional regulation avoiding extreme irritability and overreaction due to stress condition (73). Further study consistently examined the efficacy of equine assisted therapy (EAT) in improving adaptive and executive function in children with ASD (children attending EAT, n = 15, control group n = 13; inclusion criteria: IQ > 70). The results showed an improvement in social and executive functioning in the EAT group and a milder effect on motor skills (68, 74). However, the evidence for the positive effects of equine therapy on perceptual-motor, cognitive and functional skills is currently limited by unanimously positive results and many methodological weaknesses that make further research necessary (75).
Gut microbial dysbiosis in ASD and potential role of physical exercise
In the last years, the gut microbiota acquired an important asset for healthy status acquisition (76); as a consequence, it has been claimed as a contributor for the development of a large number of diseases (77–79). In particular, it has been established that gut-resident microbes and their metabolites can communicate with brain through the “gut-brain axis” (Figure 3); this network of bidirectional signals (involving the enteroendocrine system, metabolites, cytokines and neuroactive molecules) is crucial for the establishment of a correct gut-brain crosstalk and is able to regulate the development and functions of central nervous system through multiple mechanisms (80, 81). Thus, a perturbation of the gut microbiota (i.e., a dysbiosis) may affect these processes and play a role in the development of central nervous system diseases, including ASD (82, 83). Identify ASD specific gut microbial alterations and the mechanisms through which they can contribute to autism may provide novel diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers and new target for the improve of new therapies.
Figure 3.
 
Open in a new tab
Interaction between gut and brain have potential role in regulation, development, and function of central nervous system. The gut resident bacteria and their metabolites interact with brain through a way called gut-brain axis and dysbiosis can contribute autism.
To date, gut microbiota alterations have been described in ASD mice models and patients, prompting metagenomic studies as a new frontier in autism research. In this context, Sharon et al. offered a strong evidence of the link existing between gut microbial dysbiosis and autism, demonstrating that fecal microbiota transplantation from ASD children was able to induce ASD-like behavior in germ-free mice (84). In addition, they were also able to identify differentially abundant taxa (Clostridiaceae, Lactobacillales, Enterobacteriaceae, and Bacteroides), altered expression of ASD-related genes, and decreased concentration of 5-aminovaleric acid and taurine in the ASD respect to the control group (84). Taken together, their results support the hypothesis of a role of gut microbiota in ASD and highlight some molecular alterations suggesting possible underlying mechanisms.
An altered gut microbial composition has been reported also in autistic patients compared to neurotypical children even if, to date, no specific bacterial species have been found. This was due to the existence of variable and confounding factors, such as diet, age, gender, population, and autism severity (85). Despite this variability, a decreased Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes phyla ratio, due to a decrease in the relative abundance of Bacteroidetes has been frequently reported (86). As known, Bacteroidetes are involved in polysaccharide digestion; indeed abnormal carbohydrates’ digestion in ASD patients could be due to this alteration (87). Kang et al. observed a reduction trend of the abundance of the genera Prevotella, Coprococcus, and unclassified_Veillonellaceae (88). Since these genera are decreased also in intestinal diseases, they suppose that ASD-related gastrointestinal symptoms may be associated to this microbial balance (88). Another study reported an increased abundance of Clostridium bolteae and Clostridium cluster groups XVIII (87). The increase of Clostridia was mainly related to ASD severity and worsening of symptoms probably due to the production of a neurotoxin (85, 89). In particular, Alshammari et al. reported a significantly higher abundance in ASD children than in control subjects of the Clostridium perfringens: this taxon produces the beta2 toxin which is associated with gastrointestinal disorders, such as diarrhoea and food poisoning (89). According to this finding, other studies reported increased level of beta2 toxin in the faeces of ASD individuals respect to the controls (88, 90). A low abundance of the genus Akkermansia and an increased level of Desulfovibrio spp. have been also reported in ASD children (91). Notably, the genus Akkermansia is considered beneficial while the Desulfovibrio harmful, as it may worsen autistic behaviors and gastrointestinal disorders (92).
In addition to such bacterial perturbations, gut fungal dysbiosis has been also reported in ASD patients. In particular, Candida albicans, a bacteria that produces toxic molecules as ammonia and other are associated with autism-related behavior, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae were most represented in autistic children gut compared to healthy controls (93, 94). Conversely, Aspergillus versicolor was less represented in ASD patients suggesting a possible role in the pathogenesis of ASD indeed, in addition, S. cerevisiae can induce an TNF increase and IL-6 production trough activation of TLR ligands (95, 96). Furthermore, the long-term antibiotic administration in ADS patients could be involved in gut microbial perturbation (97–99). It has been reported that the massive use of antibiotics could affect gut homeostasis and the exposure during pregnancy was associated to risk of develop autism in the newborn. However, oral vancomycin treatment considerably improved ASD symptoms highlighting the need for further studies on large cohorts of ASD patients in order to address the complex relationship between antibiotic exposure, gut microbiota and ASD onset (97–99). Besides the identification of specific microbial dysbiosis associated with ASD, there is growing interest in understanding how these altered taxa may contribute to disease onset and/or development. Indeed, this may lead to the development of novel therapies aimed at the microbiota manipulation, and the finding of new diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers. It has been established that dysbiosis, as previously described, can influence the gut barrier integrity, leading the “leaky gut” condition (81). In fact, an unfunctional gut barrier can increase the levels of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the blood stimulating the immune responses trough cytokines production, such as interferon-gamma (IFN- γ), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-ɑ) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1β); these cytokines are able to cross the blood–brain barrier (BBB), inducing systemic and CNS inflammation. In line with that, in ASD patient the serum levels of LPS were significantly increased. Furthermore, the LPS, through a lipoprotein transport mechanism, get to brain eliciting neural behavioral impairment, and neuroinflammation by triggering the Nuclear Factor Kappa B (NF-kB) signaling pathway (100, 101). In support of the “leaky gut” hypothesis, de Magistris et al. reported an altered gut permeability condition in 36.7% of ASD individuals and in 21.1% of their first-degree relatives, while only 4.8% of ordinary people showed that condition (102). In previous studies, it has been observed a significant decrease in the mRNA levels of occludin and zonulin in male mice model of idiopathic autism (BTBR mice). Occludin and zonulin are the major intestinal permeability regulators involved with the maintenance of intestinal permeability (103, 104). Others studies described that the gut permeability in ASD patients was not change, demonstrating that the disruption of the intestinal barrier is not always a hallmark of autism, but it seem be involved in ASD children with intestinal disorders (105).
As mentioned above, the interest in defining an ASD specific gut dysbiosis is driven also by the opportunity to treat ASD patients and ameliorate their clinical signs by modifying their gut microbiota. In this context, it has been reported that physical exercise positively affects the gut microbiota composition (106) which in turn reduces inflammatory responses and modulates immune and endocrine functions of enteric nervous system. As well known, the enteric nervous system is a specific entity capable of regulating the intestinal functions of mobility, secretion and mucosal transport entirely autonomously from the CNS (107). Then, this type of system can really adapt to the gut microbiota alterations, modulating all immune responses as previously mentioned. Thus, it has been speculated that the positive effects of physical exercise in ASD are due to the modulation of gut microbiota composition (108), which in turn can improve different health aspects or alleviate symptoms in ASD patients. A recent review explored the effects of exercise to improve ASD patients’ behavior through gut microbiota modifications. They found that some taxa, i.e., Streptococcus, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Bacteroides, and Blautia, are modified during exercise and may influence the gut microbiota brain axis ameliorating ASD (109). Specifically, the relative abundance of Bacteroides genus was significantly enriched in many patients with ASD and several scientific works reported that exercise can reduce its relative abundance (109–111). Studies have shown that high levels of Bacteroides affect children’s cognitive and language skills, and it is also related to the production of neurotransmitter GABA (112, 113). As well known, GABA is an amino acid neurotransmitter that functions as an important heterogeneous neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. Decreased relative abundance of Bacteroides can hamper pathogen invasion, reduce immune function, and promote immunity (114, 115). While Bifidobacterium has also been proven to be related to the production of GABA, its relative abundance in patients with ASD was found to be reduced, while some studies confirmed that physical training is able to increase its abundance. Clostridium perfringens was significantly increased in most of the studied autistic patients compared to the control subjects (116–118). Clostridium perfringens is a Gram-positive bacterium that has also been extensively studied in ASD because of its production of exotoxins and propionates, and surpisingly performing physical exercise is able to a decrease its abundance (114, 119, 120). Moreover, physical exercise has shown beneficial effects on ASD signs by ameliorating social interaction, motor skills, and communication, and reducing the severity of the disease (121). Plaza-Diaz et al. (108) reported in the Table 1 of their work an interesting list of different clinical effects related to types of physical activity, confirming the positive outcome of this non-pharmacological approach. To date, there is no clear reference for the intensity, frequency, and duration of exercise to positively perturb the gut microbiota composition and then exert all beneficial clinical effect previously described. Bonomini-Gnutzmann et al. (122) published an interesting systematic review, in which several evidences support the idea that a moderate-intensity of physical exercises, with a duration of about 30 min performed for three times at week is sufficient to increase the levels of microbial diversity, intestinal metabolites and is useful most likely to reduce the severity of clinical signs in ASD patients. It is not surprising that a structured exercise program can exert several positive effects, considering that, WHO recommended physical activity for children in order to improve cognitive, mental and physical health outcomes in children and adolescents (53). Despite, the guidelines do not include evidence concerning ASD explicitly, it highlights the positive relationship between health status and physical activity in children and adolescents with general intellectual disability (108). Despite further studies are required to clarify these connections, these aspects deserve high attention for the potential perspective in ASD treatment.
Discussion
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder that alters communication and social skills. There are currently no effective therapies for ASD and the most widely used interventional approaches are mostly behavioral and educational. Numerous studies have showed that physical activity not only allows for a healthy lifestyle but also shows positive effects on social interaction which facilitates language development and improves self-esteem (14). Among different sports activities, hydrotherapy stimulate several sensory pathways through water temperature modulation, weight relief and vestibular input (42). The properties of water support active movement, amelioration of circulation and the execution motor skills. Aquatic activities also can improve social interaction and adaptive behaviors. The practice of karate stimulates the recovery of neurological capacities by increasing neuronal plasticity mediated by increasing of BDNF levels (57). In particular, the consequential rapid and controlled movements typical of karate, improve stereotypies, cognitive abilities and the communication deficit of children with ASD. Other exercise interventions, such as the minibasket, offers the possibility of practicing a group sport that harmonize their movements, improve their relationship skills and cognitive functions, allowing to channel energy into movements, and limiting the implementation of motor stereotypies (123). Furthermore, unlike other sports, in minibasket, the ball can be handled in various ways (hold in hand, pass, bounce, let slip, and fly) becoming a communication vehicle (124). Exercise interventions can be considered therapeutic tools indeed, Wang et al. (67) minibasket can be used as a complementary intervention to relieve core symptoms of ASD and to improve executive function decreasing behavioral stereotypies in preschool children with ASD. Finally, equine therapy program can be useful to improve symptoms of ASD through positive effects on cognitive and functional skills. An animal-assisted therapy correlates cognitive benefits to psychological and social aspect and was suggested as an effective treatment for ASD (72). The multisensory nature of therapeutic riding shows its stimulating effect directly associated with physical contact and the natural movement of the horse. Indeed, the act of horseback riding was perceived as a rewarding stimulus that represented higher levels of motivation and social commitment and furthermore the contact could encourage them to break away from their previous sedentary routine (125). The type of exercise is a determining variable, since the ability of an autistic patient to perform an exercise is a key factor influencing his integration into society. Several studies have shown that aerobic exercise has a significant improvement effect also because it increases the degree of contact with the outside world. Exercise load, such as quantity and intensity, is the most crucial factor during sports training (126, 127). In particular, the period and frequency of exercise significantly determine the effects of the exercise on the subject. From the point of view of the exercise period, an activity of more than 12 weeks represents a minimum time window to yield positive effects on ASD symptoms (127). From the point of view of the duration of the exercise, more than 60 min of activity allows to obtain a greater improvement. From the point of view of the frequency of the exercises, a beneficial effect can be seen with an activity carried out more than three times a week producing an effect (126, 127). The efficacy of all described treatments was mainly identified in cerebellar stimulation produced by social motivation, sedentary behaviors, and sensory stimulation. Moreover, it has been reported that physical exercise positively affects the gut microbiota brain axis ameliorating ASD. Furthermore, exercise has been reported to positively affect the gut microbiota brain axis by improving some aspects in autistic subjects (108). Furthermore, physical activity modifies the intestine microbiome leading beneficial and anti-inflammatory effects. Changes in the gut microbiota diversity and composition can translate into a reduction in inflammation and gastrointestinal symptoms as well as the modification of hundreds of metabolites (128).
The use of therapies based on physical activity in children with ASD would make it possible to stimulate different areas of the brain through external stimuli by acting on cognitive, behavioral and motor skills. In addition, these therapies act on the composition of the microbiome by modulating gastrointestinal symptoms and improving their quality of life with the reduction of the risk of developing systemic comorbidities such as obesity, gastrointestinal disorders and heart disease. Therefore, exercise represents an interesting non-pharmacological therapy for ASD. Despite the benefic effect of exercise and animal interaction the autism spectrum affection was complex and further studies are required to clarify the intricate connection between body and mind.

Raili’s Math Curriculum
1.	1
Place value names up to ten thousands 
 

2.	2
Value of a digit up to ten thousands 
 

3.	3
Convert to/from a number 
 

4.	4
Convert between place values 
 

5.	5
Convert between standard and expanded form 
 

6.	6
Regroup thousands, hundreds, tens, and ones - ways to make a number 
 

7.	7
Place value word problems 
 

8.	8
Even or odd 
 

9.	9
Guess the number 
 

B.Comparing and ordering
1.	1
Compare and order numbers using number lines 
 

2.	2
Compare numbers 
 

3.	3
Which number is greatest/least? 
 

4.	4
Order numbers 
 

5.	5
Make the largest or smallest number possible 
 

6.	6
Ordering puzzles 
 

C.Rounding
1.	1
Round to the nearest ten or hundred using a number line 
 

2.	2
Round to the nearest ten or hundred 
 

3.	3
Round to the nearest ten or hundred in a table 
 

4.	4
Rounding puzzles 
 

D.Estimate sums
1.	1
Estimate sums by rounding: up to 1,000 
 

2.	2
Estimate sums using compatible numbers 
 

3.	3
Estimate sums by rounding: word problems 
 

E.Estimate differences
1.	1
Estimate differences by rounding: up to 1,000 
 

2.	2
Estimate differences using compatible numbers 
 

3.	3
Estimate differences by rounding: word problems 
 

F.Estimate sums and differences
1.	1
Estimate sums and differences by rounding: up to 1,000 
 

2.	2
Estimate sums and differences using compatible numbers 
 

3.	3
Estimate sums and differences: word problems 
 

4.	4
Estimate to compare sums and differences 
 

G.Addition: three digits
1.	1
Use number lines to add three-digit numbers 
 

2.	2
Use compensation to add: up to three digits 
 

3.	3
Use expanded form to add three-digit numbers 
 

4.	4
Add two numbers up to three digits: without regrouping 
 

5.	5
Add two numbers up to three digits: with regrouping 
 

6.	6
Add two numbers up to three digits 
 

7.	7
Add two numbers up to three digits: word problems 
 

8.	8
Complete the addition sentence: up to three digits 
 

9.	9
Balance addition equations: up to three digits 
 

10.	10
Addition up to three digits: fill in the missing digits 
 

11.	11
Add three numbers up to three digits each 
 

12.	12
Add three numbers up to three digits each: word problems 
 

H.Subtraction: three digits
1.	1
Use number lines to subtract three-digit numbers 
 

2.	2
Use compensation to subtract: up to three digits 
 

3.	3
Use expanded form to subtract three-digit numbers 
 

4.	4
Subtract numbers up to three digits: without regrouping 
 

5.	5
Subtract three-digit numbers: with regrouping 
 

6.	6
Subtract numbers up to three digits 
 

7.	7
Subtract across zeros 
 

8.	8
Subtract numbers up to three digits: word problems 
 

9.	9
Complete the subtraction sentence: up to three digits 
 

10.	10
Balance subtraction equations: up to three digits 
 

11.	11
Subtraction up to three digits: fill in the missing digits 
 

I.Addition: four or five digits
1.	1
Addition patterns over increasing place values 
 

2.	2
Add two numbers up to four digits 
 

3.	3
Add two numbers up to four digits: word problems 
 

4.	4
Complete the addition sentence: up to four digits 
 

5.	5
Addition up to four digits: fill in the missing digits 
 

6.	6
Add three numbers up to four digits each 
 

7.	7
Add three numbers up to four digits each: word problems 
 

8.	8
Add two numbers up to five digits 
 

J.Subtraction: four or five digits
1.	1
Subtraction patterns over increasing place values 
 

2.	2
Subtract two numbers up to four digits 
 

3.	3
Subtract two numbers up to four digits: word problems 
 

4.	4
Subtract two numbers up to five digits 
 

K.Mixed operations: addition and subtraction
1.	1
Relate addition and subtraction sentences 
 

2.	2
Use number lines to add and subtract three-digit numbers 
 

3.	3
Use compensation to add or subtract: up to three digits 
 

4.	4
Add and subtract three-digit numbers 
 

5.	5
Complete the addition or subtraction sentence: up to three digits 
 

6.	6
Add and subtract data from tables 
 

7.	7
Addition and subtraction word problems: up to three digits 
 

8.	8
Age puzzles 
 

9.	9
Find two numbers based on sum and difference 
 

L.Addition properties
1.	1
Properties of addition 
 

2.	2
Complete the equation using properties of addition 
 

3.	3
Add using properties 
 

4.	4
Even or odd: addition patterns 
 

M.Skip-counting
1.	1
Skip-count 
 

2.	2
Skip-counting sequences 
 

3.	3
Skip-counting puzzles 
 

N.Understand multiplication
1.	1
Identify repeated addition for equal groups - sums to 25 
 

2.	2
Write addition sentences for equal groups - sums to 25 
 

3.	3
Count equal groups 
 

4.	4
Identify multiplication expressions for equal groups 
 

5.	5
Write multiplication sentences for equal groups 
 

6.	6
Relate addition and multiplication for equal groups 
 

7.	7
Multiply by 0 or 1 with equal groups 
 

8.	8
Identify multiplication expressions for arrays 
 

9.	9
Write multiplication sentences for arrays 
 

10.	10
Make arrays to model multiplication 
 

11.	11
Multiply using number lines 
 

12.	12
Write multiplication sentences for number lines 
 

13.	13
Relate addition and multiplication 
 

14.	14
Compare numbers using multiplication 
 

O.Multiplication skill builders up to 10
1.	1
Multiply 0 by numbers up to 10 
 

2.	2
Multiply 1 by numbers up to 10 
 

3.	3
Multiply 2 by numbers up to 10 
 

4.	4
Multiply 3 by numbers up to 10 
 

5.	5
Multiply 4 by numbers up to 10 
 

6.	6
Multiply 5 by numbers up to 10 
 

7.	7
Multiply 6 by numbers up to 10 
 

8.	8
Multiply 7 by numbers up to 10 
 

9.	9
Multiply 8 by numbers up to 10 
 

10.	10
Multiply 9 by numbers up to 10 
 

11.	11
Multiply 10 by numbers up to 10 
 

P.Multiplication fluency up to 10
1.	1
Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10 
 

2.	2
Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: true or false? 
 

3.	3
Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: sorting 
 

4.	4
Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: find the missing factor 
 

5.	5
Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9 
 

6.	6
Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: true or false? 
 

7.	7
Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: sorting 
 

8.	8
Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: find the missing factor 
 

9.	9
Multiplication facts up to 10 
 

10.	10
Multiplication facts up to 10: true or false? 
 

11.	11
Multiplication facts up to 10: sorting 
 

12.	12
Multiplication facts up to 10: find the missing factor 
 

13.	13
Multiplication facts up to 10: select the missing factors 
 

14.	14
Multiplication sentences up to 10: true or false? 
 

15.	15
Squares up to 10 x 10 
 

Q.Multiplication skill builders up to 12
1.	1
Multiply 1 by numbers up to 12 
 

2.	2
Multiply 2 by numbers up to 12 
 

3.	3
Multiply 3 by numbers up to 12 
 

4.	4
Multiply 4 by numbers up to 12 
 

5.	5
Multiply 5 by numbers up to 12 
 

6.	6
Multiply 6 by numbers up to 12 
 

7.	7
Multiply 7 by numbers up to 12 
 

8.	8
Multiply 8 by numbers up to 12 
 

9.	9
Multiply 9 by numbers up to 12 
 

10.	10
Multiply 10 by numbers up to 12 
 

11.	11
Multiply 11 by numbers up to 12 
 

12.	12
Multiply 12 by numbers up to 12 
 

R.Multiplication fluency up to 12
1.	1
Multiplication facts to 12 
 

2.	2
Multiplication facts up to 12: true or false? 
 

3.	3
Multiplication facts up to 12: find the missing factor 
 

4.	4
Multiplication facts up to 12: select the missing factors 
 

5.	5
Multiplication sentences up to 12: true or false? 
 

 
S.Multiplication properties
1.	1
Properties of multiplication 
 

2.	2
Solve using properties of multiplication 
 

3.	3
Multiply three numbers using properties 
 

4.	4
Multiply by 0 or 1: complete the sentence 
 

5.	5
Write two multiplication sentences for an array 
 

6.	6
Distributive property: find the missing factor 
 

7.	7
Multiply one-digit numbers using grids 
 

8.	8
Multiply using the distributive property 
 

9.	9
Even or odd: multiplication patterns 
 

10.	10
Identify multiplication patterns in tables 
 

T.Multiplication word problems
1.	1
Use equal groups and arrays to solve multiplication word problems 
 

2.	2
Multiplication word problems with factors up to 5 
 

3.	3
Use strip models to solve multiplication word problems 
 

4.	4
Multiplication word problems with factors up to 10 
 

5.	5
Multiplication word problems with factors up to 5: find the missing number 
 

6.	6
Multiplication word problems with factors up to 10: find the missing number 
 

7.	7
Compare numbers using multiplication: word problems 
 

U.Two-digit multiplication
1.	1
Multiply by a multiple of ten using place value 
 

2.	2
Multiply by a multiple of ten 
 

3.	3
Multiply one-digit numbers by teen numbers using grids 
 

4.	4
Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers using area models I 
 

5.	5
Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers using area models II 
 

6.	6
Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers 
 

7.	7
Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers: word problems 
 

8.	8
Multiply three numbers 
 

9.	9
Multiply three numbers: word problems 
 

V.Understand division
1.	1
Divide by counting equal groups 
 

2.	2
Write division sentences for groups 
 

3.	3
Division sentences with 1 and 0 
 

4.	4
Relate multiplication and division for groups 
 

5.	5
Write division sentences for arrays 
 

6.	6
Make arrays to model division 
 

7.	7
Relate multiplication and division for arrays 
 

8.	8
Relate multiplication and division 
 

9.	9
Divide using number lines 
 

W.Division skill builders up to 10
1.	1
Divide by 1: quotients up to 10 
 

2.	2
Divide by 2: quotients up to 10 
 

3.	3
Divide by 3: quotients up to 10 
 

4.	4
Divide by 4: quotients up to 10 
 

5.	5
Divide by 5: quotients up to 10 
 

6.	6
Divide by 6: quotients up to 10 
 

7.	7
Divide by 7: quotients up to 10 
 

8.	8
Divide by 8: quotients up to 10 
 

9.	9
Divide by 9: quotients up to 10 
 

10.	10
Divide by 10: quotients up to 10 
 

X.Division fluency up to 10
1.	1
Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10 
 

2.	2
Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: true or false? 
 

3.	3
Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: sorting 
 

4.	4
Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9 
 

5.	5
Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: true or false? 
 

6.	6
Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: sorting 
 

7.	7
Division facts up to 10 
 

8.	8
Division facts up to 10: true or false? 
 

9.	9
Division facts up to 10: sorting 
 

10.	10
Division facts up to 10: find the missing number 
 

11.	11
Division facts up to 10: select the missing numbers 
 

12.	12
Division sentences up to 10: true or false? 
 

Y.Division skill builders up to 12
1.	1
Divide by 1: quotients up to 12 
 

2.	2
Divide by 2: quotients up to 12 
 

3.	3
Divide by 3: quotients up to 12 
 

4.	4
Divide by 4: quotients up to 12 
 

5.	5
Divide by 5: quotients up to 12 
 

6.	6
Divide by 6: quotients up to 12 
 

7.	7
Divide by 7: quotients up to 12 
 

8.	8
Divide by 8: quotients up to 12 
 

9.	9
Divide by 9: quotients up to 12 
 

10.	10
Divide by 10: quotients up to 12 
 

11.	11
Divide by 11: quotients up to 12 
 

12.	12
Divide by 12: quotients up to 12 
 

Z.Division fluency up to 12
1.	1
Division facts up to 12 
 

2.	2
Division facts up to 12: true or false? 
 

3.	3
Division facts up to 12: find the missing number 
 

4.	4
Division facts up to 12: select the missing numbers 
 

5.	5
Division sentences up to 12: true or false? 
 

AA.Division word problems
1.	1
Use equal groups to solve division word problems 
 

2.	2
Use arrays to solve division word problems 
 

3.	3
Use equal groups and arrays to solve division word problems 
 

4.	4
Use strip models to solve division word problems 
 

5.	5
Division word problems 
 

BB.Mixed operations: multiplication and division
1.	1
Multiplication and division with 0 or 1 

2.	2
Multiplication and division facts up to 5: true or false? 
 

3.	3
Multiplication and division facts up to 10 
 

4.	4
Multiplication and division facts up to 10: true or false? 
 

5.	5
Multiplication and division facts up to 10: find the missing number 
 

6.	6
Multiplication and division facts up to 10: select the missing numbers 
 

7.	7
Multiplication and division facts up to 12 
 

8.	8
Multiplication and division facts up to 12: true or false? 
 

9.	9
Multiplication and division sentences up to 12: true or false? 
 

10.	10
Multiplication and division word problems 
 

11.	11
Multiplication and division: real-world patterns 
 

CC.Mixed operations
1.	1
Addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division facts 
 

2.	2
Complete the addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division sentence 
 

3.	3
Add, subtract, multiply, and divide 
 

4.	4
Addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division word problems 
 

5.	5
Find two numbers based on sum, difference, product, and quotient 
 

DD.Two-step word problems
1.	1
Two-step addition and subtraction word problems 
 

2.	2
Two-step multiplication and division word problems 
 

3.	3
Two-step word problems: represent and solve using strip models 

4.	4
Two-step mixed operation word problems 
 

5.	5
Two-step word problems: identify reasonable answers 
 

EE.Equations with unknown numbers
1.	1
Identify equations 
 

2.	2
Solve for the unknown number: addition and subtraction only 
 

3.	3
Solve for the unknown number: multiplication and division only 
 

4.	4
Solve for the unknown number 
 

5.	5
Write equations with unknown numbers to represent word problems: multiplication and division only 
 

6.	6
Write equations with unknown numbers to represent word problems 
 

FF.Understand fractions
1.	1
Identify equal parts 
 

2.	2
Make halves, thirds, and fourths 
 

3.	3
Make sixths and eighths 
 

4.	4
Make halves, thirds, fourths, sixths, and eighths 
 

5.	5
Make halves, thirds, fourths, sixths, and eighths in different ways 

6.	6
Understand fractions: fraction bars 
 

7.	7
Understand fractions: area models 
 

8.	8
Show fractions: fraction bars 
 

9.	9
Show fractions: area models 
 

10.	10
Match fractions to models: halves, thirds, and fourths 
 

11.	11
Match unit fractions to models 
 

12.	12
Match fractions to models 
 

13.	13
Match mixed numbers to models 
 

14.	14
Fractions of a group: unit fractions 
 

15.	15
Fractions of a group 
 

16.	16
Write fractions using numbers and words 
 

17.	17
Decompose fractions into unit fractions 
 

GG.Fractions on number lines
1.	1
Fractions of number lines: unit fractions 
 

2.	2
Fractions of number lines: halves, fourths, and eighths 
 

3.	3
Fractions of number lines 
 

4.	4
Identify unit fractions on number lines 
 

5.	5
Identify fractions on number lines 
 

6.	6
Graph unit fractions on number lines 
 

7.	7
Graph fractions less than 1 on number lines 
 

8.	8
Graph fractions on number lines 
 

9.	9
Graph smaller or larger fractions on a number line 
 

HH.Fraction word problems
1.	1
Unit fractions: modeling word problems 
 

2.	2
Unit fractions: word problems 
 

3.	3
Fractions of a whole: modeling word problems 
 

4.	4
Fractions of a whole: word problems 
 

5.	5
Fractions of a group: word problems 
 

 
II.Equivalent fractions
1.	1
Find equivalent fractions using fraction strips 
 

2.	2
Find equivalent fractions using area models: two models 
 

3.	3
Find equivalent fractions using area models: one model 
 

4.	4
Identify equivalent fractions on number lines 
 

5.	5
Find equivalent fractions using number lines 
 

6.	6
Graph equivalent fractions on number lines 
 

7.	7
Identify equivalent fractions 
 

8.	8
Find equivalent fractions 
 

9.	9
Write fractions in lowest terms 
 

JJ.Fractions equivalent to whole numbers
1.	1
Graph fractions equivalent to 1 on number lines 
 

2.	2
Select fractions equivalent to whole numbers using models 
 

3.	3
Select fractions equivalent to whole numbers 
 

4.	4
Find fractions equivalent to whole numbers 
 

KK.Compare fractions with like denominators
1.	1
Compare fractions with like denominators using models 
 

2.	2
Graph and compare fractions with like denominators on number lines 
 

3.	3
Compare fractions with like denominators 
 

LL.Compare fractions with like numerators
1.	1
Compare fractions with like numerators using models 
 

2.	2
Graph and compare fractions with like numerators on number lines 
 

3.	3
Compare fractions with like numerators 
 

MM.Compare fractions
1.	1
Compare fractions using models 
 

2.	2
Compare fractions using number lines 
 

3.	3
Graph and compare fractions on number lines 
 

4.	4
Compare fractions 
 

5.	5
Compare fractions and justify your answer 
 

6.	6
Compare fractions in recipes 
 

NN.Order fractions
1.	1
Graph and order fractions on number lines 
 

2.	2
Order fractions with like denominators 
 

3.	3
Order fractions with like numerators 
 

4.	4
Order fractions 
 

OO.Area
1.	1
Find the area of figures made of unit squares 
 

2.	2
Find the area of figures made of unit squares: customary and metric units 
 

3.	3
Select figures with a given area 
 

4.	4
Select two figures with the same area 
 

5.	5
Tile a rectangle and find the area 
 

6.	6
Multiply to find the area of a rectangle made of unit squares 
 

7.	7
Create figures with a given area 
 

8.	8
Create rectangles with a given area 
 

9.	9
Find the area of a tiled rectangle using the distributive property 
 

10.	10
Find the area of rectangles and squares 
 

11.	11
Find the missing side length of a rectangle 
 

12.	12
Find the area of rectangles with missing unit squares 
 

13.	13
Find the area of rectangles: word problems 
 

14.	14
Find the missing side length of a rectangle: word problems 
 

15.	15
Find the area of complex figures by dividing them into rectangles 
 

16.	16
Find the area of complex figures 
 

17.	17
Find the area between two rectangles 
 

18.	18
Find the area of complex figures: word problems 
 

PP.Perimeter
1.	1
Perimeter of figures on grids 
 

2.	2
Perimeter of rectangles 
 

3.	3
Perimeter of quadrilaterals 
 

4.	4
Perimeter of rectilinear shapes 
 

5.	5
Perimeter of polygons 
 

6.	6
Perimeter: find the missing side length 
 

7.	7
Perimeter: word problems 
 

QQ.Area and perimeter
1.	1
Find the area, perimeter, or side length: word problems 
 

2.	2
Choose between area and perimeter: word problems 
 

3.	3
Rectangles with the same perimeter or area 
 

4.	4
Relationship between area and perimeter: find the perimeter 
 

5.	5
Relationship between area and perimeter: find the area 
 

RR.Lines and angles
1.	1
Lines, line segments, and rays 
 

2.	2
Angles greater than, less than, or equal to a right angle 
 

3.	3
Parallel, perpendicular, and intersecting lines 
 

SS.Polygons
1.	1
Is it a polygon? 
 

2.	2
Count and compare sides and vertices 
 

3.	3
Attributes of polygons 
 

4.	4
Identify polygons: up to 12 sides 
 

5.	5
Sort two-dimensional shapes using sides and angles 
 

TT.Quadrilaterals
1.	1
Parallel sides in quadrilaterals 
 

2.	2
Attributes of quadrilaterals 
 

3.	3
Identify rectangles 
 

4.	4
Identify parallelograms 
 

5.	5
Identify rhombuses 
 

6.	6
Identify trapezoids 
 

7.	7
Classify squares, rectangles, rhombuses, and parallelograms 
 

8.	8
Classify squares, rectangles, rhombuses, parallelograms, and trapezoids 
 

9.	9
Name quadrilaterals more than one way 
 

10.	10
Draw squares, rectangles, rhombuses, and parallelograms 
 

11.	11
Draw squares, rectangles, rhombuses, parallelograms, and trapezoids 
 

UU.Read and write times
1.	1
Match clocks and times 
 

2.	2
Match analog and digital clocks 
 

3.	3
Read clocks and write times 
 

4.	4
A.M. or P.M. 
 

5.	5
Identify times written in words 
 

VV.Elapsed time
1.	1
Find the end time 
 

2.	2
Find the elapsed time 
 

3.	3
Find the end time: word problems 
 

4.	4
Find the start time: word problems 
 

5.	5
Find the elapsed time: word problems 
 

6.	6
Find the start time, the end time, or the elapsed time: word problems 
 

7.	7
Find start and end times: two-step word problems 
 

WW.Customary units of measurement
1.	1
Read a Fahrenheit thermometer 
 

2.	2
Measure using an inch ruler: nearest ¼ inch 
 

3.	3
Estimate lengths with inches, feet, and yards 
 

4.	4
Read a scale - customary units 
 

5.	5
Measure liquid volumes - customary units 

6.	6
Measure liquid volumes using half and quarter cups 
 

7.	7
Which customary unit of length is appropriate? 
 

8.	8
Which customary unit of weight is appropriate? 
 

9.	9
Which customary unit of volume is appropriate? 
 

10.	10
Which customary unit is appropriate? 
 

11.	11
Choose the appropriate measuring tool 
 

XX.Metric units of measurement
1.	1
Read a Celsius thermometer 
 

2.	2
Read a scale - metric units 
 

3.	3
Measure liquid volumes - metric units 
 

4.	4
Estimate lengths with centimeters and meters 
 

5.	5
Which metric unit of length is appropriate? 
 

6.	6
Which metric unit of mass is appropriate? 
 

7.	7
Which metric unit of volume is appropriate? 
 

8.	8
Which metric unit is appropriate? 
 

9.	9
Measurement word problems 
 

YY.Data and graphs
1.	1
Interpret data in tables 
 

2.	2
Create scaled bar graphs 
 

3.	3
Interpret scaled bar graphs 
 

4.	4
Use bar graphs to solve problems 
 

5.	5
Interpret bar graphs: multi-digit numbers 
 

6.	6
Create scaled picture graphs 
 

7.	7
Interpret scaled picture graphs 
 

8.	8
Create line plots 
 

9.	9
Interpret line plots 
 

10.	10
Create line plots with fractions 
 

11.	11
Create and interpret line plots with fractions 
 

12.	12
Interpret circle graphs 
 

ZZ.Money
1.	1
Count coins and bills - up to $5 bill 
 

2.	2
Count coins and bills word problems - up to $5 bill 
 

3.	3
Purchases - do you have enough money - up to $10 
 

4.	4
Which picture shows more? 
 

5.	5
Correct amount of change 
 

6.	6
Making change 
 

7.	7
Inequalities with money 
 

8.	8
Put money amounts in order 
 

9.	9
Add and subtract money amounts 
 

10.	10
Add money amounts - word problems 
 

11.	11
Price lists 
 

AAA.Financial literacy
1.	1
Factors that affect income 

2.	2
Scarcity and cost 

3.	3
Planned and unplanned spending decisions 

4.	4
Uses for credit 
 

5.	5
Savings plans 

6.	6
Classify financial decisions 

Making friends and finding social opportunities can sometimes be difficult, particularly for children who are neurodiverse. This may include those with certain neurodevelopmental conditions, such as children who are on the autism spectrum or who have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or intellectual disability.
There is immense diversity within every community, and every child is unique. While the approaches, strategies, and advice offered here may not work for everyone, all of us can do our part to support friendship building. Building social skills is one step, which we'll discuss in this post. A later post will focus on broadening societal expectations and adapting environments. When combined, both can help create more inclusive communities and social opportunities.
Embracing an open attitude
Friendships and social connections are an important aspect of people's lives. They provide a sense of belonging and allow people to be included in their communities. Everyone can be a friend; everyone deserves to have friends.
People with neurodevelopmental differences often have different ways of communicating, learning, and regulating their behavior. Embracing an open attitude to differences among people, and encouraging children to do the same, can help others feel more comfortable in social situations. 
Practice at home: Skill-building around common social situations
Sometimes, neurodevelopmental differences can make it harder to develop friendships and participate in social activities with peers. Skill building is one way to help children bridge the gap.
Navigating social settings and making friends involve many skills you can practice with children at home.
•	Greetings and questions. Make a habit of practicing greetings throughout the day. Model good listening for your child, and take turns asking and answering conversation starters like, "How are you?"
•	Adjusting body movements and level of voice depending on surroundings. While certain behaviors can be soothing for children who are neurodiverse, these behaviors can be challenging in some environments. For example, a playground or park works well for an excited body and a loud voice, while a calm body and quiet voice may be needed in a library. Practicing different behaviors for different settings can be helpful. 
•	Patience and flexibility in play. Play helps children learn more about themselves, others, and the world around them. Children can engage as they are able and most comfortable, such as through parallel play with a shared interest or activity, or more interactive play. Free form play dates can offer more time and space to explore while structured play, including puzzles and outdoor sports, can offer a goal to work toward alongside others.
•	Reading and responding to social signals. People regularly communicate using more than just words. Social signals are the variety of ways in which we communicate through body language and facial expressions. Often this can be tricky to detect for children who are neurodiverse. Practice recognizing common social signals with your child by asking what someone's body or face might be saying.
Impulsivity, aggression, and safety concerns
Some children with neurodevelopmental disabilities may also experience impulsive, aggressive, or unsafe behaviors, such as bolting or wandering. Sometimes these behaviors are due to difficulty handling strong feelings.
To help children navigate the different emotions that come their way, practice communicating strong feelings effectively either by asking for help, using an emotions board, or taking a break. It's also important to address safety concerns and challenging behaviors, like impulsivity and aggression, through therapies and programming.
How to throw a wide net socially
Encouraging social opportunities is an important part of supporting friendships and social relationships for children with neurodevelopmental disabilities. Social spaces offer chances for children who are neurodiverse to find activities they enjoy. They are able to practice the social and emotional skills they are learning and possibly meet other children practicing these same skills.
•	Build up time. A new social situation can sometimes be overwhelming and only good for short periods of time. Building up over time can help with getting used to a new environment. Practice staying the first 10 minutes of a birthday party and gradually build up to staying all the way for cake.
•	Structure and organize play dates. Set up the environment before a play date by making a list of activities to do with a friend, then picking out of a hat which activities to do and in what order. Add parallel play into play dates through arts and crafts projects and build toward more interactive play skills as desired.
•	Make a list of fun things to do and invite others to join. Look for free or low-cost programs or events out in the community.
•	Connect with other parents of children with disabilities. Set up an activity for your children like an ice cream date, going on a walk, or a game night with adults and kids together. These encounters can give rise to repeat, planned social opportunities.
•	Check out community organizations for children with disabilities. A few examples are Special Olympics and Best Buddies, or recreational programs that foster inclusive environments through Unified Sports.
•	Look into facilitated recreational activities like a Lego club or pizza parties with teachers. Decide when and where to make food part of the equation. Plan to bring a support person if needed.
Your child's doctor or teacher may be able to suggest additional community or web-based resources designed to help families support friendships for children with neurodiverse abilities.

Making (and Keeping) Friends: A Model for Social Skills Instruction
By: Dr. Scott Bellini, Associate Director
“I am not asking for my child to be the life of the party, or a social butterfly. I just want her to be happy and have some friends of her own. She is a wonderful kid, and I hope someday others can see that.”
Social Skill Deficits in Autism Spectrum Disorders
Indeed, many parents of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) echo this sentiment concerning their child’s social functioning. They know that their child has many wonderful qualities to offer others, but the nature of their disability, or more precisely, their poor social skills, often preclude them from establishing meaningful social relationships. This frustration is amplified when parents know that their children want desperately to have friends, but fail miserably when trying to make friends. Often, their failure is a direct result of ineffectual programs and inadequate resources typically made available for social skills instruction. For most children, basic social skills (e.g., turn taking, initiating conversation) are acquired quickly and easily. For children with ASD, the process is much more difficult. Whereas, many children learn these basic skills simply by exposure to social situations, children with ASD often need to be taught skills explicitly, and as early as possible. The present article addresses social skill deficits in young children with ASD by providing a systematic five-step model for social skills instruction, with particular emphasis placed on an emerging intervention strategy, video self-modeling (VSM).
Lack of "Know-How" Versus Lack of Social Interest
Impairment in social functioning is a central feature of ASD. Typical social skill deficits include: initiating interactions, responding to the initiations of others, maintaining eye contact, sharing enjoyment, reading the non-verbal cues of others, and taking another person’s perspective. The cause of these skill deficits varies, ranging from inherent neurological impairment to lack of opportunity to acquire skills (e.g., social withdrawal). Most important, these social skill deficits make it difficult for the individual to develop, and keep meaningful and fulfilling personal relationships. Although social skill deficits are a central feature of ASD, few young children receive adequate social skills programming (Hume, Bellini, & Pratt, 2005). This is a troubling reality, especially considering that the presence of social impairment may lead to the development of more detrimental outcomes, such as poor academic achievement, social failure and peer rejection, anxiety, depression, and other negative outcomes (Bellini, 2006; Tantam, 2000; Welsh, Park, Widaman, & O’Neil, 2001). And the lack of social skills programming is particularly troubling given that fact that many social skill difficulties can be ameliorated via effective social skills instruction.
The long held notion that children with autism spectrum disorders lack an interest in social interactions is often inaccurate. Many children with ASD do indeed desire social involvement, however, these children typically lack the necessary skills to interact effectively. One young man I worked with illustrates this point quite well. Prior to my visit, the school staff informed me of his inappropriate behaviors and his apparent “lack of interest” in interacting with other children. After spending the morning in a self-contained classroom, Zach was given the opportunity to eat lunch with the general school population (a time and place that produced many of the problem behaviors). As he was eating lunch, a group of children to his right began a discussion about frogs. As soon as the conversation began, he immediately took notice. So too did I. As he was listening to the other children, he began to remove his shoes, followed by his socks. I remember thinking, “Oh boy, here we go!” As soon as the second sock fell to the ground, Zach flopped his feet on the table, looked up at the group of children and proclaimed, “Look, webbed feet!” The other children (including myself) stared in amazement. In this case, Zach was demonstrating a desire to enter and be a part of a social situation, but he was obviously lacking the necessary skills to do so in an appropriate and effective manner.
This lack of “know-how” could also lead to feelings of social anxiety in some children. Many parents and teachers report that social situations typically evoke a great deal of anxiety from their children. Children with ASD often describe an anxiety that resembles what many of us feel when we are forced to speak in public (increased heart rate, sweaty palms, noticeable shaking, difficulties concentrating, etc.). Not only is the speaking stressful, but just the thought of it is enough to produce stomach-gnawing butterflies. Imagine living a life where every social interaction you experience was as anxiety provoking as having to make a speech in front of a large group! The typical coping mechanism for most of us is to reduce the stress and anxiety by avoiding the stressful situation. For children with ASD, it often results in the avoidance of social situations, and subsequently, the development of social skill deficits. When a child continually avoids social encounters, she denies herself the opportunity to acquire social interaction skills. In some children, these social skill deficits lead to negative peer interactions, peer rejection, isolation, anxiety, depression, substance abuse, and even suicidal ideation. For others, it creates a pattern of absorption in solitary activities and hobbies; a pattern that is often difficult to change.
A Five Step Model
1.	Assess Social Functioning
2.	Distinguish Between Skill Acquisition and Performance Deficits
3.	Select Intervention Strategies
4.	Implement Intervention
5.	Evaluate and Monitor Progress
The following section will summarize my five-step model of social skills instruction (Bellini, 2006). Before implementing social skills instruction, it is important to begin with a thorough assessment of the individual’s current level of social skills functioning. Once the assessment is complete, the next step is to discern between skill acquisition deficits and performance deficits. Based on this information, the selection of intervention strategies takes place. Once intervention strategies are implemented, it is then imperative to evaluate and modify the intervention as needed. Although I use the term “Steps,” it is important to note that the model is not perfectly linear. That is, in real-life applications social skills instruction will not follow a lock-step approach from step one to step five. For instance, it is not uncommon for me to identify additional social skill deficits (step one) while I am in the middle of the implementation process (step four). In addition, I am continually assessing and modifying the intervention as additional information and data are accumulated.
Assess Social Functioning
The first step in any social skill training program should consist of conducting a thorough evaluation of the child’s current level of social functioning. The purpose of the assessment is to answer one very basic, yet complicated, question: What is precluding the child from establishing and maintaining social relationships? For most children, the answer takes the form of specific social skill deficits. For others, the answer takes the form of cruel and rejecting peers. And for yet other children, the answer is both.
The evaluation should detail both the strengths and weakness of the individual related to social functioning. The assessment should involve a combination of observation (both naturalistic and structured), interview (e.g., parents, teachers, playground supervisors, the child), and standardized measures (e.g., behavioral checklists, social skills measures). I have developed the Autism Social Skills Profile (ASSP) to assist in the identification of typical social skill deficits in children with ASD, and to measure the progress the child is making in the program. Kathleen Quill (2000) also provides an excellent social skills checklist for parents and professionals in her book, Do-Watch-Listen-Say. It is important for the child’s team to ascertain current level of functioning and effectively intervene at the child’s area of need. For instance, if the evaluation reveals that the child is unable to maintain simple one-on-one interactions with others, then the intervention should begin at this level and not at a more advanced group interaction level. Or, if the evaluation revels that the child does not know how to play symbolically or even functionally with play items, then the intervention will probably begin by teaching play skills prior to teaching specific interaction skills. After a thorough assessment of social functioning is complete, the team should then determine whether the skill deficits identified are the result of skill acquisition deficits or performance deficits.
[Author’s Note: A detailed description of social skills assessment is beyond the scope of this article. More information on this topic, including a copy of the ASSP, can be found in the author’s book, Building Social Relationships.]
Distinguish Between Skill Acquisition and Performance Deficits
After a thorough assessment of the child’s social functioning and after identifying the skills that we will teach, it is imperative to determine whether the skill deficits are the result of skill acquisition deficits or performance deficits (Elliott & Gresham, 1991). Simply put, the success of your social skills program hinges on your ability to distinguish between skill acquisition deficits and performance deficits!
A skill acquisition deficit refers to the absence of a particular skill or behavior. For example, a young child with ASD may not know how to effectively join-in activities with peers; therefore, he/she will often fail to participate. If we want this child to join-in activities with peers, we need to teach her the necessary skills to do so.
A performance deficit refers to a skill or behavior that is present, but not demonstrated or performed. To use the same example, a child may have the skill (or ability) to join-in an activity, but for some reason, fails to do so. In this case, if we want the child to participate we would not need to teach the child to do so (since she already has the skill). Instead, we would need to address the factor that is impeding performance of the skill, such as lack of motivation, anxiety, or sensory sensitivities.
A good rule of thumb in discerning between a skill acquisition deficit and a performance deficit is to ask the question, “Can the child perform the task with multiple persons and across multiple settings?” For instance, if the child only initiates interactions with mom at home and not with his peers at school, then you should address the initiation difficulty as a skill acquisition deficit. I hear the statement a lot from school personnel, “The child interacts fine with me, so it must be a performance deficit, right?” Not quite. In my experience, children with ASD tend to interact better and more easily with adults, because adults typically make it easy for them; the adults do most of the conversational “work” for the child. To use a baseball analogy, just because Tommy can hit Dad’s soft, underhand pitches at home, doesn’t mean he has mastered the skill well enough to hit pitches thrown by his peers on the playing field. Sometimes adult interactions with children with ASD are similar to throwing a child a soft, underhand pitch. Although they are positive and well intended, they do not adequately prepare the child for more difficult peer-to-peer interactions.
Too often, social skill deficits and inappropriate behaviors are incorrectly conceptualized as performance deficits. That is, we tend to assume that when a child does not perform a behavior, it is the result of refusal or lack of motivation. In other words, we assume that the child who does not initiate interactions with peers has the ability to initiate, but does not want to initiate (performance deficit). In many cases, this is a faulty assumption. In my experience, the vast majority of social skill deficits in young children with ASD can be attributed to skill acquisition deficits. That is, children with ASD are not performing socially because they lack the necessary skills to perform socially—not because they do not want to be social or refuse to be social. If we want young children to be successful socially, then we have to TEACH them the skills to be successful! Therefore, it is essential to focus on skill development when implementing social skills instruction.
The benefit of using a skill acquisition/performance deficit model is that it guides the selection of intervention strategies. Most intervention strategies are better suited for either skill acquisition or performance deficits. The intervention selected should match the type of deficit present. That is, you would not want to deliver an intervention designed for a performance deficit, if the child was mainly experiencing a skill acquisition deficit. For instance, in the example above, if Tommy has not mastered the skill of hitting (skill acquisition deficit), all the reinforcement in the world (including pizza!) will not help Tommy hit the ball during the game. If we want him to be a skilled hitter, we need to provide Tommy additional instruction on the mechanics of hitting a baseball. The same is true for social skills. If we want a child to be socially fluent, then we need to deliver effective social skills instruction. In contrast, if Tommy does have sufficient hitting skills, but lacks the motivation to “do his best,” then the reward of cheese and pepperoni may be all he needs to excel on the playing field.
Once a thorough social skill assessment is completed and the team is able to attribute the social difficulties to either skill acquisition or performance deficits, social skills instruction is ready to begin. There are a variety of strategies that can be delivered to young children with ASD. The most important thing is that the strategies being delivered are appropriate to the unique needs of the child and that a logical rationale can be provided for using the intervention. The following strategies provide a sampling of techniques that can be implemented to teach successful social interaction skills to children and adolescents with ASD. Other than peer mediated interventions (PMI), the strategies listed below are designed to address skill acquisition deficits. However, some of the strategies (in particular, video self-modeling and social stories) work equally well in addressing performance deficits. In addition, it is imperative that the child be reinforced continually for his effort and participation in the program.
Selecting Intervention Strategies
Accommodation and Assimilation
When selecting intervention strategies, it is important to consider the notion of accommodation versus assimilation. Accommodation, as it relates to social skills instruction, refers to the act of modifying the physical or social environment of the child to promote positive social interactions. Examples of this include: training peer mentors to interact with the child throughout the school day, autism awareness training for classmates, and signing your child up for various group activities, such as little league, or Boy or Girl Scouts. Whereas accommodation addresses changes in the environment, assimilation focuses on changes in the child. Assimilation refers to instruction that facilitates skill development that allows the child to be more successful in social interactions. The key to a successful social skills training program is to address both accommodation and assimilation. Focusing on one and not the other sets the child up for failure. For instance, one family that I worked with did a wonderful job of structuring playgroups for their child, and keeping their child active in social activities. However, they were becoming increasingly frustrated with the fact that their son was not making friends and still having negative peer interactions. The problem was that they were putting the cart before the horse. They provided their child with ample opportunity to interact with others, but they weren’t providing him the skills necessary to be successful in those interactions. Similarly, providing skill instruction (assimilation) without modifying the environment to be more accepting of the child with autism also sets the child up for failure. This happens the moment an eager child with autism tries out a newly learned skill on a group of non-accepting peers. The key is to teach skills and modify the environment. This ensures that the new skill is received by peers with both understanding and acceptance.
Social Skills Strategies
As stated previously, social skills often need to be taught explicitly to children and adolescents with ASD. Traditional social skills strategies (such as board games about friendships and appropriate classroom behavior) tend to be too subtle for many children with ASD. For instance, a school counselor was frustrated with the progress she was making with a student with autism. She stated that the program was showing positive results with “other kids in the group,” but the student with autism didn’t seem to “get it.” Indeed, he was not “getting it!” The reason was quite apparent. The school counselor was attempting to teach the students about the concept of “friendship.” This is acceptable for some children, but for children with ASD it tends to be a too subtle form of instruction. That is, instead of spending countless hours teaching the child about “friendship,” the instruction should have focused on skills the child could use to make and keep friends. Experience tells me that the concept of friendship is much easier to understand once you have a friend or two!
There are number of important questions to consider when selecting social skill strategies. For instance, does the strategy target the skill deficits identified in the social assessment? Does the strategy enhance performance? Does the strategy promote skill acquisition? Is there research to support its use? If not, what is your plan to evaluate its effectiveness with your child? Is it developmentally appropriate for your child? The following is a list of social skill strategies that have demonstrated effectiveness in teaching social interaction skills to children with ASD.
The following section summarizes various social intervention strategies that have been designed to promote social interaction skills in young children with ASD, including peer-mediated instruction, thinking-feeling activities, social stories, role-playing, and video- modeling.
Peer Mediated Interventions
The use of peer mentors is one example of an effective strategy for young children with ASD. Peer mediated interventions (PMI) have been frequently used to promote positive social interactions among preschool aged peers (Strain & Odom, 1986; Odom, McConnell, & McEvoy 1992). Peer mediated instruction allows us to structure the physical and social environment in a manner to promote successful social interactions. In this approach, peers are systematically trained to make social initiations or respond promptly and appropriately to the initiations of children with ASD during the course of their school day. Peer mentors should be classmates of the child with ASD, have age-appropriate social and play skills, have a record of regular attendance, and have a positive (or at least neutral) history of interactions with the child with ASD. Peer mentors should also be made aware of the behaviors associated with autism in a manner that is respectful and developmentally appropriate for the age group. The use of peer mentors allows the teacher and other adults to act as facilitators, rather than participate as active playmates. That is, instead of being a third wheel in child-child interaction, the teacher prompts the peer buddies to initiate and respond appropriately to the child with ASD and then get out of the way!. The use of peer mentors also facilitates generalization of skills by ensuring that newly acquired skills are performed and practiced with peers in the natural environment.
For more information on peer-mediated interventions, see Vanderbilt/Minnesota social interaction project play time/social time: Organizing your classroom to build interaction skills. (Odom & McConnell, 1993).
Thoughts and Feelings Activities
Recognizing and understanding the feelings and thoughts of self and others is often an area of weakness for children with ASD and is essential to successful social interactions. For instance, we continually modify our behavior based on the non-verbal feedback we receive from other people. We may elaborate on a story if the other person is smiling, looking on intently, or showing other signs of genuine interest. On the other hand, if the other person repeatedly looks at her watch, sighs, or looks otherwise disinterested, we may perhaps cut the story short (I said perhaps!). Children with ASD often have difficulty recognizing and understanding these non-verbal cues. Because of this, they are less able to modify their behavior to meet the emotional and cognitive needs of other people.
The most basic thought and feeling activity involves showing the child pictures of people exhibiting various emotions. Pictures can range from showing basic emotions such as happy, sad, angry, or scared, to more complicated emotions such as embarrassed, ashamed, nervous, or incredulous. Begin by asking the child to point to an emotion (i.e., “point to happy”), then ask the child to identify what the character is feeling (i.e., “how is he feeling.

Many of the young children I work with seem to pick up the ability to identify emotions quite easily. When they do, it is time to move on to more advanced instructional strategies, such as teaching them to understand the meaning or “why” behind emotions. This requires the child to make inferences based on the context and cues provided in the picture. That is, based on the information in the picture, ask “why is the child sad?” The pictures should portray characters participating in various social situations and exhibiting various facial expressions or other nonverbal expressions of emotion. You may cut pictures out of magazines, or download and print them from the Internet. You may also use illustrations from children’s books, which are typically rich in emotional content and contextual cues.
Once mastery is achieved on the pictures, move to television programs or video footage of social situations. Many of the programs that air on Sprout or Noggin, are excellent resources for this procedure because they portray characters in social situations, and display clear emotional expressions. You can use the same procedure as for the pictures, only this time the child is making inferences based on dynamic social cues. Simply ask the child to identify what the characters in the video are feeling and why they are feeling that way. When the scenario moves too quickly for the child, press pause, and ask the question with a still frame. (Make sure your machine has a clear picture when on pause.)

Patricia Howlin’s book Teaching Children with Autism to Mind-Read offers helpful information and resources in this area of instruction. In addition, there are a number of software programs on the market that address both emotions and perspective taking abilities (see Mind-Reading: An Interactive Guide to Emotions by Simon Baron-Cohen).
Social Stories
A Social Story is a frequently used strategy to teach social skills to children with disabilities. A Social Story is a non-coercive approach that presents social concepts and rules to children in the form of a brief story. This strategy could be used to teach a number of social and behavioral concepts, such as making transitions, playing a game, and going on a field trip. Carol Gray (1995; 2000) outlines a number of components that are essential to a successful Social Story, including: the story should be written in response to the child’s personal need; the story should be something the child wants to read on her own (depending upon ability level); the story should be commensurate with ability and comprehension level; and the story should use less directive terms such “can,” or “could,” instead of “will” or “must.” This last component is especially important for children who tend to be oppositional or defiant (i.e., the child who doesn’t decide what to do until you tell him to do something...then he does the opposite!). The Social Story can be paired with pictures and placed on a computer to take advantage of the child’s propensity towards visual instruction and interest in computers. I have found that children with ASD learn best when Social Stories are used in conjunction with Role-Playing and used as a social primer. That is, after reading a Social Story, the child then practices the skill introduced in the story. For instance, immediately after reading a story about joining-in an activity with peers, the child would practice the skill. Then, after reading the story and practicing the skill, the child would be exposed to a social situation where she would have an opportunity to perform the skill. For more comprehensive guidance on creating a Social Story, see Gray, 1995.
Role Playing/Behavioral Rehearsal
Role-playing or behavioral rehearsal is used primarily to teach basic social interaction skills. It is an effective approach to teaching social skills that allows for the positive practice of skills (Gresham, 2002). Role-playing involves acting out situations or activities in a structured environment to practice newly acquired skills and strategies, or previously learned skills that the child is having difficulties performing. Role-plays can be either scripted or spontaneous. In the latter, the child is provided with a scenario (e.g., asking another child to play with him), but not with the specific script. Typically, I combine scripted and unscripted elements to each role-play. For instance, the child might be provided with an opening statement or question, but the rest of the interaction would be spontaneous.
I use role-playing to teach a variety of interaction skills, particularly those involving initiating, responding, and terminating interactions. In one scenario, the child is required to initiate a conversation with another person, who is engaged in a separate task. Consequently, he would have to ask to join in, or ask the other person to join him in an activity. The latter typically proves to be most difficult for children with ASD.
During the first few sessions, it is not uncommon for the child to get “stuck” in conversations and interactions, often for minutes without knowing what to say or how to proceed. During the early sessions, the child should be given ample time to process and respond to the role-play scenarios. As the sessions progress, speed and proficiency should gradually increase.
Video Modeling and Video Self-Modeling (VSM)
Video modeling is without a doubt the most effective social skills intervention strategy that I have used with young children with ASD. A video modeling intervention involves an individual watching a video demonstration of a behavior and then imitating the behavior of the model. Video modeling may be used with peers, adults, or self as a model (video self-modeling). Video self-modeling (VSM) interventions have the added advantage of providing the child with a visual representation of success…their own success! VSM can be used to promote skill acquisition, enhance skill performance, and reduce problem behaviors. It integrates a powerful learning medium for children with ASD (visually cued instruction) with an effective evidence-based intervention modality (modeling).
An emerging body of research demonstrates great promise for the use of video modeling (peer or adult as model), and video self-modeling (VSM), as a therapeutic modality for children with ASD. Bellini and Akullian (in-press) conducted a meta-analysis of video modeling and video-self modeling research across 20 peer-reviewed studies and involving 63 participants with ASD. Results suggest that video modeling and VSM are effective intervention strategies for addressing social-communication skills, behavioral functioning, and functional skills in children and adolescents with ASD. Specifically, these procedures promote skill acquisition and that skills acquired via video modeling and VSM are maintained over time and transferred across person and settings. That is, video modeling and VSM appear to be effective interventions for children across the spectrum of autism from early childhood to adolescence. Interventions produced rapid increases (or decreases in some cases) in targeted skills with a median intervention length of nine video viewings. In addition, the median duration of the video clips shown to participants was only three minutes.
VSM interventions typically fall within two categories, positive self-review (PSR) and video feedforward (Dowrick, 1999).
PSR refers to children viewing themselves successfully engaging in a behavior or activity that is currently in their behavioral repertoire. PSR may be used with low-frequency behaviors or behaviors that were once mastered, but are no longer. In this case, the individual is videotaped while engaging in the low-frequency behavior and then shown a video of the behavior. An example of a PSR intervention for preschoolers would be to video record the child participating with peers (low frequency behavior) and then show the child the video. Buggey and colleagues (1999) used a PSR intervention to increase responding behaviors in young children with ASD. The children in the study viewed videotapes of themselves answering questions while engaging in play activities. Although answering questions was a low frequency behavior for these children, the videos were edited to portray the children as fluent in their responses (i.e., non-responses were edited out of the video). The intervention produced rapid increases in unprompted verbal responding.
Video feedforward, another category of VSM interventions, is typically used when the individual already possesses the necessary skills in her behavioral repertoire, but is unable to put them together to complete an activity. For instance, the child may have the ability to get out of bed, brush her teeth, get dressed, and comb her hair (morning routine), but cannot perform these skills in the proper sequence. A video feedforward intervention would videotape her engaging in each of these tasks and then splice the segments together to form the proper sequence. The same may be done with typical social interaction sequences. For instance, the child could be videotaped demonstrating three different skills: initiating an interaction, maintaining a reciprocal interaction, and appropriately terminating the interaction. The three scenes could then be blended together to portray one successful, and fluent social interaction.
Feedforward is also a good option for children who need additional assistance, or support, to complete tasks successfully. The notion of “hidden supports” is an important component of video feedforward interventions. For instance, the child may be videotaped interacting with peers while an adult provides assistance through cueing and prompting. The adult prompt is edited out (i.e., hidden) so that when the child views the video segment, she sees herself as independent and successful. Feedforward requires additional technological capabilities, as compared to PSR, but it typically requires a smaller quantity of raw video footage.
For additional instruction on conducting VSM intervention, please refer to the Video Futures Project at the University of Alaska, Anchorage, https://www.uaa.alaska.edu/academics/college-of-health/departments/center-for-human-development/ .
For additional information on editing home movies, check out the helpful website, How Stuff Works, at: http://computer.howstuffworks.com/video-editing.htm
Implement the Intervention
Once you have assessed social skill functioning and identified skills to teach, discerned between skill acquisition and performance deficits, and selected intervention strategies, it is time to implement the strategies. Social skills instruction should be provided in multiple settings (home, classroom, resource room, playground, community, etc.) and by multiple providers. There is no “best” place to teach social skills, though it is important to keep in mind that the purpose of all social skills instruction should be to promote social success with PEERS, in the NATURAL environment. As such, if the child is receiving social skills training in a school resource room (or by a private therapist), it is imperative that a plan be put in place to facilitate transfer of skills from the resource room to the natural environment. Parents and teachers should look for opportunities to prompt and reinforce the skills that are being taught in the resource room or clinic.
Rate of skill development differs greatly from one child to the next. Some children will begin utilizing their new skills after only two or three sessions, while other children may require over three months to before they begin to “get it” and start using their newly learned skills. Of course simply using or trying a skill is just the first step towards social success. The child will take additional time to master the social skills that he is learning and developing. Gresham et al. (2001) recommended that social skills training be implemented more frequently and more intensely than what is typically implemented. They concluded that “thirty hours of instruction, spread over 10-12 weeks is NOT enough” (p. 341). Social skill instruction should be intense (as frequently as possible) and encompassing (in every environment the child enters).
Assess and Modify the Intervention
Although “Assess and Modify” is listed as the last stage in the intervention process, it certainly is not the least important. In addition, it also is not the last thing to think about when designing a social skills program. Typically, as soon as I am able to identify the social skill deficits to be addressed, I begin to develop the methods for evaluating the efficacy of the intervention. To use a basic example, if the target of the intervention is social initiations, then I might take baseline data on the frequency of initiations with peers and adults. I would then continue to collect data on social initiations throughout the implementation stage. Accurate data collection is essential in evaluating the effectiveness of the intervention. It allows us to determine whether the child is benefiting from the instruction, and how to modify the program to best meet the child’s needs. In school settings, accurate data collection is a legal imperative. When I work with school teams, the focus is on integrating the social skills program with the child’s behavioral and social objectives. As such, Stage 5 is typically a very important aspect of IEP development, implementation, and integrity.
Case Example
The following case study illustrates the use of a social skills intervention for a young girl diagnosed with autism. “Kelly,” was a kindergartener with low average verbal ability. Although her vocabulary was in the average range for children her age, she seldom used her language spontaneously with classmates and teachers. She spoke only when asked direct questions and interacted only when others initiated the interactions. Consequently, Kelly spent the majority of her playground time by herself, with little peer interaction. A social skills assessment concluded that she had significant skill deficits in initiating interactions, and maintaining interactions with peers. A social skills intervention was designed to increase the frequency and length of social interactions with peers. Data on peer interactions (initiations and responses to peers) were collected in both a structured playgroup, and during recess. Two peer mentors were selected to participate in a structured playgroup with Kelly. The peers were instructed to initiate and to respond promptly to Kelly’s initiations. The peers were also provided developmentally appropriate information regarding autism and Kelly’s behaviors, which included hand-flapping. Also prior to the playgroup, Kelly was read a social story related to initiating social interactions. Each time the story was read, Kelly was given the opportunity to practice initiation skills via a role-playing procedure. The children participated in a playgroup three days a week for two weeks. During the playgroups, Kelly was prompted to initiate interactions with the peers, and she was prompted to respond promptly and appropriately to the peers when they initiated interactions with her. The playgroups were videotaped over the two-week time period. The video footage was then edited to exclude the continual prompting and coaching provided to Kelly. The edited tapes portrayed Kelly fluently and effectively interacting with her peers. The tapes were shown to Kelly in 5-minute increments for two weeks. For Kelly, the VSM procedure facilitated immediate increases in initiations and responses to peers in both the play setting and on the playground. By the end of the school year, Kelly had developed relationships with two other children, friendships that continue to this day.
The purpose of this article is not to provide an all-inclusive list of social skills strategies available for children with ASD. Instead, the present article presents a social skills training model that assists families and professionals in the delivery of social skills instruction. In addition, not all programs are appropriate for every child. Great care and planning needs to be put forth to ensure that the strategies used in the program meet the individual needs of the child. Therefore, a multi-dimensional intervention strategy that addresses the individual characteristics (both strengths and weaknesses) of the child is imperative. In the example above, Kelly received weekly social skills instruction, in addition to speech and occupational therapy. Kelly needed a full compliment of strategies to be successful socially. As her mother told me, Kelly may never be the life of the party or a “social butterfly.” However, with the delivery of an effective social skills program, Kelly has been given an opportunity to develop the skills necessary to develop meaningful personal relationships. And the rest of us have been given the opportunity to meet a truly wonderful child.

Autistic children often experience social interactions differently, processing social cues and conventions in unique ways and struggling with the basic social skills many of us take for granted. This blog explores how social deficits can affect their daily lives, from communication struggles to peer interactions, and steps parents and caregivers can take to help their children develop essential social skills. 
 
Understanding Social Skills Deficits in Autistic Children
Parents and caregivers often notice the first signs of autism when they’re observing how their child interacts with others. A deficit in social communication is one of the core symptoms that define autism spectrum disorder, and these autism signs can manifest in various ways, from how a child responds to their name to how they engage in play. In this blog, we look at what social deficits are, how they may impact the daily lives of autistic children, and a few ways that parents and caregivers can support their autistic children in becoming more comfortable and confident in social situations. 
What Are Social Skills Deficits in Autistic Children?
To understand the challenges that autistic children (and adults) face in terms of social skills, we must first define what social skills are. 
Social skills can be understood as the skills we use to communicate with the people we encounter daily. These include verbal and nonverbal communication methods, such as words and tone, gestures, and body language. More complex social skills also include understanding social norms, seeking social engagement, and understanding emotions. Social skills are important because they allow us to build and maintain relationships with others and communicate our needs, wants, and thoughts effectively. This can positively impact many areas of our lives, from career success and stress management to independence, conflict resolution, and even our emotional well-being.  
However, autistic people often have certain social skills deficits, which means they may have significant challenges in developing or using these important social tools. That said, it’s important to note that autism presents differently in each person, so your autistic child may not display all (or even any) of these deficits. Some common examples of social skills deficits in autism include: 
•	Little to no interest in social interactions. 
•	Difficulty with listening and following conversations. 
•	Challenges in interpreting non-verbal cues like body language and facial expressions. 
•	Difficulty following instructions or directions. 
•	Speaking excessively during a conversation or interrupting frequently. 
•	Limited use of nonverbal social communication, such as pointing. 
•	Challenges with initiating or maintaining conversations. 
•	Difficulty empathizing and building rapport with others. 
•	Challenges in understanding or responding appropriately to the emotions of others.  
•	Taking everything said to them literally. 
The Impact of a Lack of Social Skills
For an autistic child, a deficit in key social skills can have significant consequences that affect multiple areas of their lives. These consequences often include: 
•	Social rejection and isolation: Autistic children may find it hard to make friends or join in on group activities, often leading to feelings of loneliness and isolation. 
•	Academic struggles: Social skills are extremely important in a classroom setting. Without social skills, an autistic child may struggle to speak up in class, communicate with teachers and peers, or participate in group projects.  
•	Mental health challenges: The constant effort of navigating social situations can lead to increased anxiety, depression, stress, and sometimes aggression. 
•	Emotional development challenges: The ability to connect with others and understand social dynamics plays a significant role in emotional development. A lack of social skills can impact an autistic child’s self-esteem and self-awareness, making it harder for them to cope with emotions and build resilience. 
•	Physical health impacts: Stress and anxiety are known to cause several physical health issues, from gastrointestinal issues to sleep difficulties and other stress-related physical health problems. Autistic children with severe social deficits may also be less likely to engage in physical activities or sports, which can impact their overall physical health and development. 
•	Future opportunities and independence concerns: As children grow, social skills become increasingly important for navigating various aspects of life, including higher education and employment. Early social skills deficits can have long-term effects on the child’s ability to achieve independence and succeed in adulthood. 
How To Help Autistic Children Who Lack Social Skills
The good news is that many aspects of social skills can be taught or improved. This can have numerous benefits for an autistic child, including lower stress levels, better outcomes, a stronger social network, and more success throughout their life. 
Here are some tips to help improve social communication deficits in autistic children. 
Lead by Example
As a parent, one of the easiest ways to help your child better understand how to interact with others is by leading by example. Your child will mimic you, including your social interactions, so being a good role model for your child will help them develop good social skills. 
Roleplay
Is it your autistic child’s first day at school? Perhaps they’re going to a birthday party for the first time? Or maybe another child has just taken their favorite toy? Whatever the situation is, you can help your child be prepared by roleplaying both expected and unexpected events that may take place in their life. 
Practice Using Toys and Games
Another important way for your child to improve their social skills is by using games that encourage the skills you want them to learn. For example, have a tea party with their stuffed animals and play out how the party should go with your child and their toys. A game that has turns, such as checkers or chess, is another great way to help your child understand the concept of taking turns with other people.  
Encourage Interactions With Allistic Children
Whatever situation your autistic child is in, it’s important that you provide them with opportunities to engage with their allistic peers, either in a formal schooling environment or through specifically arranged events or playdates. Neurodiverse and neurotypical kids can learn a lot from each other, so getting them to socialize healthily can be a win-win. 
Be On the Lookout for Buddy Programs
Your autistic child can also learn from people who are older than them but not necessarily adults. Some programs offer autistic children the chance to interact with older individuals who can act as mentors by helping autistic children learn and improve their social skills through various activities in the buddy program. This can be especially helpful if you can find an older neurodivergent person as a mentor — their lived experience will likely have equipped them with healthy coping strategies and techniques they can help your child with. 
Praise Successful Social Interactions
If your autistic child has a positive interaction with a peer or adult, it’s important to let them know they did a good job. This will encourage them to interact positively with others in the future.  
Specific Social Skills Lesson
If you are unable to assist your child yourself, it’s important that you enroll them in a school environment that provides them with specific social skills lessons or seek out the assistance of a specialist who can help them outside of a school setting. Many health professionals, including psychologists and occupational therapists, can assist you and your child with learning and improving their social interactions. 

The Impact of Co-occurring ADHD on Social Competence Intervention Outcomes in Youth with Autism Spectrum Disorder
Christina Harkins 1, Micah O Mazurek 2
•	Author information
•	Article notes
•	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC10624644  NIHMSID: NIHMS1900237  PMID: 37142907
The publisher's version of this article is available at J Autism Dev Disord
Abstract
Purpose:
The co-occurrence of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and attention- deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is significant and associated with a host of negative outcomes. Studies investigating social functioning in the presence of the ASD/ADHD co-occurrence have produced mixed findings. The present study further evaluated the impact of co-occurring ADHD on social functioning among youth with ASD and compared treatment response to a social competence intervention between youth with ASD and ASD + ADHD.
Methods:
Two-way repeated measures analyses of variance (ANOVAs) were computed with diagnostic group and time as the independent variables and measures of social functioning as dependent variables. Group and Time effects and Group by Time interactions were examined.
Results:
Youth with co-occurring ADHD displayed more impairments related to social awareness, but not in other social areas. Participants in both the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups demonstrated significant improvement following a social competence intervention.
Conclusion:
Co-occurring ADHD did not negatively affect treatment response. Youth with ASD + ADHD may benefit highly structured interventions with a scaffolded teaching design.
Keywords: autism, ASD, ADHD, social intervention, social competence
________________________________________
Difficulties with social interaction and social communication are core diagnostic features of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and are often the primary target of intervention efforts. Social problems are also relatively common in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD; Kern et al., 2015), and it is estimated that 37 to 85 % of youth with ASD meet criteria for ADHD (Lecavalier et al., 2018; Murray, 2010; Simonoff et al., 2008). It has been suggested that that youth with ASD + ADHD may be less responsive to standard treatments approaches (Leitner, 2014), as the co-occurrence is associated with greater cognitive delays (Rao & Landa, 2014), behavior challenges (Guttmann-Steinmetz et al., 2009), and social problems (Factor et al., 2017; McVey et al., 2018) than ASD alone. However, studies of psychosocial interventions amidst the ASD/ADHD co-occurrence are sorely lacking, and there may be important treatment implications for those with potentially compounded social behavioral difficulties.
Social Impact of the ASD/ADHD Co-occurrence
Studies comparing individuals with ASD + ADHD to those with only one of these diagnoses have suggested that they display greater social problems, though findings have been mixed and marked by inconsistencies in participants characteristics and measurement approaches (Harkins et al., 2021). Several studies employing the parent-report Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS; Constantino et al., 2003; Constantino & Gruber, 2012) as a measure of social impairment have found significant differences between youth with ASD + ADHD and those with either ASD or ADHD alone. One study of young children with the ASD/ADHD co-occurrence indicated greater social impairment across all SRS subscales (Rao & Landa, 2014), while another study of children and adolescents (M age= 7.9 years) revealed that co-occurring ADHD was associated with greater impairments on only the Social Awareness and Social Communication subscales (Factor et al., 2017). Studies relying on the clinician-reported ADOS social domain score as a measure of social impairment have similarly yielded mixed findings. While one study found that the ASD group had significantly greater social impairment than the ASD + ADHD group (Salley et al., 2015), another yielded no significant difference (Harkins et al., 2021). These contrasting findings may be attributed to measurement differences. Studies have shown that the SRS is sensitive (Moul et al., 2015), but not specific, and may be susceptible to symptoms of ADHD (Hus et al., 2013; Sprenger et al., 2013). Additionally, it is possible that the ADOS is sensitive to core symptoms of ASD, but not the qualitive social differences that may be attributed to the co-occurrence of ASD and ADHD (Harkins et al., 2021).
Notably, the ASD + ADHD group in all the aforementioned studies was determined by parent-reported clinically significant ADHD symptoms, rather than a diagnosis of ADHD. Two studies that evaluated social impairment associated with the ASD/ADHD co-occurrence based on diagnosis did not find significant differences between the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups on the SRS (Dellapiazza et al., 2021; Ng et al., 2021) or the ADOS social affect raw score (Ng et al., 2021). The differences in findings between studies that relied on a symptom threshold versus a clinical diagnosis are interesting and warrant further investigation. To address this, the present study will compare social impairment in youth with ASD with and without co-occurring ADHD using multiple measures of social impairment, with group status based on clinical diagnosis.
Social Skills Interventions for Youth with ASD + ADHD
Despite the high co-occurrence of ASD and ADHD and potential for more severe symptoms, no known manualized psychosocial interventions have been developed for individuals with ASD and ADHD. While many group social interventions designed for ASD are advertised as appropriate for ADHD, few have been evaluated in ADHD (see Willis et al., 2019 for review of social skills interventions for ADHD), and even fewer have been evaluated for youth with ASD + ADHD (Batson et al., 2017). Thus, it is difficult to discern which social interventions may be most effective for youth affected by the ASD + ADHD, and how co-occurring ADHD impacts treatment outcomes.
One factor that contributes to this difficulty is the lack of reporting of co-occurring psychiatric diagnoses in social interventions studies. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis of group social interventions for ASD included eight studies (Wolstencroft et al., 2018) and not one of them reported on co-occurring disorders within their samples. A review of participant characteristics for articles included in another systematic review and meta-analysis of the UCLA PEERS Program (Zheng et al., 2021) revealed that only three (Hill et al., 2017; Laugeson et al., 2012; Matthews et al., 2018) of the 12 included studies reported co-occurring conditions, including ADHD. As 63–78% of individuals with ASD have at least one co-occurring psychiatric condition (Simonoff et al., 2008), exclusions of this nature may limit understanding of how co-occurring conditions are related to treatment outcomes.
Impact of ADHD on Social Skills Int for ASD
There is little research on the impact of co-occurring ADHD symptoms on treatment outcomes among youth with autism. It is possible that inattention interferes with learning of social skills, hyperactivity disrupts participation in group intervention, and impulsivity hinders application of the acquired abilities in context (Barkley, 1997; Deckers et al., 2016). Only two studies have investigated social treatment gains in the context of the ASD/ADHD co-occurrence.
Antshel and colleagues (2011) investigated the impact of psychiatric comorbidity (i.e., anxiety and ADHD) on social treatment outcomes for clinically-referred children age 8–12 with ASD without intellectual disability (ID). The manualized 10-session 60-minute group social intervention was based on a social adjustment enhancement intervention (described in Solomon et al., 2004) and included children with ASD (n = 21), ASD + Anxiety (n = 37), and ASD + ADHD (n = 25) with average cognitive abilities. Co-occurring disorders were assessed using the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL; Achenbach & Rescorla, 2001) and a clinical interview. The Social Skills Rating System (SSRS; Gresham & Elliott, 1990) results showed that the ASD and ASD + Anxiety groups both showed significant improvement on the SSRS total score and on the Cooperation and Responsibility subscales. The ASD + ADHD group did not show improvement and were rated as somewhat worse as a function of time on the SSRS. The finding that the ASD + ADHD group did not improve like the other treatment groups is interesting, particularly considering that 72% of children with co-occurring ADHD were on medication and receiving concurrent school-based social skills training (32%) or individual therapy (32%). It is possible that the children with ASD + ADHD could not generalize skills or employ what they learned in context due to worse executive functioning skills or interfering symptoms of ADHD.
Another study by Deckers and colleagues (2016) evaluated the effectiveness of group social skills training delivered in a naturalistic setting for 26 children age 8–12 with ASD without ID. The manualized social skills training (described in Deckers et al., 2013) consisted of 12 weekly treatment sessions and three parent sessions over the course of the intervention. Each group consisted of four children and treatment involved child and parent workbooks, personalized goals, and weekly homework activities. The primary outcome measure was the social skills observation (SSO; Barry et al., 2003), which was completed by both parents and teachers. ADHD symptoms were a hypothesized moderator, among other variables, and were assessed via the ADHD questionnaire (ADHD-Q; Scholte & Van der Ploeg, 1998). Results indicate that children’s social skills significantly improved as a function of treatment per parent-and teacher-report as compared to the waitlist control group. Interestingly, ADHD symptoms did not have an effect on the change in teacher- or parent-reported social skills. It is possible that the participants recruited from a community mental health center presented with milder social impairments and/or milder symptoms of ADHD. The majority of children in the treatment condition (19 of 26) were in the general education setting and 11 of the 26 children were on ADHD medication. Additionally, the highly structured nature of the program, personalized treatment plan, and parent component may have bolstered treatment effects.
Findings regarding the impact of co-occurring ADHD on treatment outcomes for youth with ASD are mixed and limited. Both of the aforementioned studies used one measure of social functioning, which was parent and/or teacher report. Additionally, neither of the studies reported on comparisons of baseline social impairment for the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups. The present study seeks to address these shortcomings and evaluate the impact of the ASD/ADHD co-occurrence on social functioning and social treatment outcomes using a multi-measure, multi-informant approach. It is hypothesized that the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups will be comparable in level of social impairment on parent- and clinician-reported measures of social impairment at baseline, and that the ASD + ADHD group will demonstrate less improvement in social functioning compared to the ASD group following a social competence intervention.
Methods
Participants and Procedures
Data were utilized from a previously completed study focused on [BLINDED FOR REVIEW]. All participants had a previous professional diagnosis of ASD confirmed for eligibility in the study by a score at or above the clinical cut-off on the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule, Second Edition (ADOS-2; Lord et al., 2012), a full scale IQ or 75 or higher on the Differential Ability Scales, Second Edition (Elliot, 2007), and completed the social competence intervention. This resulted in a sample of 81 children and adolescents (age 6–14).
Participants completed baseline assessments within four weeks of the first treatment session. Post-treatment assessments were collected within two weeks of the last session.
Treatment
The Social Competence Intervention (SCI) is a group-based manualized intervention designed for youth with ASD without ID that combines cognitive-behavioral and applied behavior analysis principles (Stichter et al., 2010). The SCI aims to address deficits in social perspective taking, emotion recognition, and executive functioning by teaching strategies to shift thinking patterns and by providing appropriate replacement skills (Stichter et al., 2010, 2012; Stichter, Herzog, et al., 2016). There are three versions of the SCI based on age of participants. The Elementary (SCI-E) and Adolescent (SCI-A) curricula include the following units taught in two-week increments: (a) recognizing facial expressions, (b) sharing ideas, (c) turn taking in conversations, (d) recognizing emotions in self and others, and (e) problem solving. Units follow a consistent structure of (a) reviewing a previously learned skill and introducing a new skill, (b) skill modeling, (c) structured and naturalistic practice, and (d) a closing activity or review (Stichter et al., 2010, 2012; Stichter, Herzog, et al., 2016).
Prior research has shown the SCI to be effective in improving social behavior, social interaction, and social cognition in autistic youth (Stichter et al., 2010, 2012; Stichter, Herzog, et al., 2016). Additionally, a prior SCI study found improvements on measures of executive functioning (Stichter, Christ, et al., 2016). In the present study, the SCI spanned an average of 15 weeks and the SCI-E and SCI-A were delivered based on age.
Measures
Demographics and History
Parents of participants provided demographic information, including the child’s age, gender, race and ethnicity, educational placement, and parental education and household income. They also provided clinical information, including diagnostic history and current medications.
Clinical Characterization
Cognitive ability was assessed using the Differential Ability Scales, Second Edition (Elliot, 2007). Verbal and Nonverbal Composite scores and Full Scale IQ scores were obtained for all participants. Previous professional diagnosis of ADHD was parent-reported and used to determine diagnostic group status (i.e., ASD or ASD + ADHD). The Hyperactivity/Noncompliance subscale from the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC; Aman & Singh, 1986) was used as a confirmatory measure of ADHD symptoms, and the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups were compared on this subscale at baseline. The ABC is a 58-item caregiver-report questionnaire that measures current behavioral functioning. It has shown strong psychometric properties (Aman et al., 1995) and is widely used in individuals with ASD (Bagaiolo et al., 2019; Sannar et al., 2018). The Hyperactivity/Noncompliance subscale has strong convergent validity with the Behavioral Regulation Index and Global Executive Composite of the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF; Gioia et al., 2000) and has been shown to predict ADHD diagnostic status (Halvorsen et al., 2019). This subscale also has strong convergent validity with the Attention Problems and ADHD Problems scales on the Child Behavior Checklist among youth with ASD (Kaat et al., 2014), and has been employed as a primary outcome measure in clinical trials for medication targeting ADHD symptoms in youth with ASD (Mansour et al., 2017; Scahill et al., 2017). Three participants (8.11%) in the ASD group and 32 participants (72.73%) in the ASD + ADHD group were on medication for ADHD symptoms throughout the study. Three participants in the ASD + ADHD group experienced a medication change for ADHD symptoms (i.e., from one ADHD medication to another), but medication use was stable for all other participants.
Social Functioning
Social functioning was assessed using a variety of measures and informants. The ADOS-2 Social Affect Calibrated Severity Score (ADOS-SA-CSS; Esler et al., 2015; Gotham, Pickles, & Lord, 2009; Hus & Lord, 2014) served as a clinical observational method of social impairment. The ADOS-2 is a standardized, semi-structured assessment of communication and social interaction, and repetitive behaviors and restricted interests. (Lord et al., 2012), and was administered by research-reliable assessors in the current study.  The ADOS-SA-CSS is based on a 10-point scale: scores from 1 to 3 are in the “Nonspectrum” range; 4–5 are in the “ASD” range; and 6–10 in the “Autism” range. The CSS severity metric was found to have more uniform distributions across developmental groups than raw scores and to be less influenced by child characteristics such as verbal IQ, nonverbal IQ, age, and race (Gotham et al. 2009; Hus & Lord, 2014).
The Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS-2; Constantino & Gruber, 2012) served as a parent-report measure of social functioning. The SRS-2 is a 65-item questionnaire that generates an overall Total T-Score of autism symptom severity, and subscales for Social Awareness, Social Cognition, Social Communication, and Social Motivation. The SRS-2 has good construct validity (Constantino et al. 2003) and strong reliability (Constantino and Gruber 2005), with a coefficient alpha of 0.95.
The Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) Version 4.0 (Varni et al., 2001) was administered as an additional measure of social functioning. The PedsQL assesses core dimensions of quality of life and includes 21 items rated on a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (“never a problem”) to 4 (“almost always a problem”). The PedsQL, is a parent-report measure that has been widely used in autism research, and has good reliability and validity (Varni et al., 2001). The Social Functioning Domain Score was used to measure peer and social functioning.
The Autism Impact Measure (AIM) was included to measure the impact of social symptoms on functioning. The AIM is a parent- report questionnaire consisting of 41 items assessing core ASD symptoms. Each item is rated on corresponding 5-point scales for frequency and impact. Frequency ratings reflect how often the behavior has occurred over the past 2 weeks (ranging from “never” to “always”). Impact ratings reflect the degree to which the behaviors or skill deficits have interfered with everyday functioning (ranging from “not at all” to “severely”). Five empirically derived subdomain scores are generated using a subset of 29 items: Repetitive Behavior, Atypical Behavior, Communication, Social Reciprocity, and Peer Interaction (Mazurek, Carlson, Baker-Ericzén, Butter, Norris, & Kanne, 2020). The AIM has demonstrated strong reliability, validity, and sensitivity to change (Houghton et al., 2019; Kanne et al., 2014; Mazurek, Carlson, Baker-Ericzén, Butter, Norris, & Kanne, 2020; Mazurek, Carlson, Baker-Ericzén, Butter, Norris, Barr, et al., 2020). The Communication, Social Reciprocity, and Peer Interaction subscales were used as measures of social functioning in the present study.
Analytic Plan
All data were cleaned and examined for outliers, missing data, and distributional assumptions using SPSS Statistics Software, Version 28. Multiple imputation was performed to replace missing data at post-testing (16% missing for all study measures). As the probability of missing data was related to other observed variables, they were assumed to be missing at random and five imputation data sets were used. Descriptive statistics were generated (See Table 1) and bivariate analyses were performed to compare diagnostic groups at baseline. Co-occurring psychiatric disorders for participants are presented in Table 2 and correlations among study variables are presented in Table 3. Two-way repeated measures analyses of variance (ANOVAs) were computed with diagnostic group and time as the independent variables and measures of social functioning as dependent variables. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was employed if significant group differences were observed on variables of interest at baseline, with diagnostic group status as the independent variable, baseline score as the covariate, and the post-intervention score as the dependent variable. Measures of social functioning included the ADOS-SA-CSS, SRS-2 Total T-score, SRS-2 Social Awareness T-score, SRS-2 Social Cognition T-score, SRS-2 Social Motivation T-score, PedsQL Social Functioning Domain score, and the AIM Communication, AIM Social Reciprocity, and AIM Peer Interaction subscale scores. Group and Time effects and Group by Time interactions were examined. In assuming a conservative approach, Bonferroni corrections were applied for all pre-post analyses and an alpha level of 0.017 was set for statistical significance.
Table 1.
Sample characteristics by group.
	Total
N (%)	ASD
n (%)	ASD + ADHD
n (%)
	81	37	44
Age (years) M (SD)	10.78 (2.35)	10.11 (2.46)	11.34 (2.21)
			
Gender			
 Male	73 (90.13%)	34 (91.9%)	39 (88.6%)
 Female	8 (9.87%)	3 (8.1%)	5 (11.4%)
Race			
 White	73 (90.12%)	31 (83.78%)	42 (95.45%)
 Black	2 (2.47%)	1 (2.7%)	1 (2.27%)
 Asian	2 (2.47%)	2 (5.41%)	0 (0.0%)
 Two or More Races	4 (4.94%)	3 (8.11%)	1 (2.27%)
Ethnicity			
 Hispanic	2 (2.5%)	1 (2.7%)	1 (2.3%)
 Non-Hispanic	79 (97.5%)	36 (97.3%)	44 (97.7%)
Income			
 Under 15,000	2 (2.5%)	2 (5.4%)	0 (0.0%)
 15–25,000	6 (7.4%)	3 (8.1%)	3 (6.8%)
 25–35,000	5 (6.2%)	0 (0.0%)	5 (11.4%)
 35–50,000	16 (19.8%)	9 (24.3%)	7 (15.9%)
 50–75,000	11 (13.6%)	4 (10.8%)	7 (15.9%)
 75–100,000	17 (20.0%)	7 (18.9%)	10 (22.7%)
 100,000+	24 (29.6%)	12 (32.4%)	12 (27.3%)
Open in a new tab
Table 2.
Comorbid psychiatric diagnoses of participants by diagnostic group.
	Total
N (%)	ASD
n (%)	ASD + ADHD
n (%)
Anxiety Disorder	17 (20.99%)	6 (16.22%)	11 (25.0%)
Bipolar Disorder	2 (2.47%)	0 (0.0%)	2 (4.55%)
Depressive Disorder	7 (8.64%)	1 (2.70%)	6 (13.64%)
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder	7 (8.64%)	2 (5.41%)	5 (11.36%)
Oppositional Defiant Disorder	3 (3.70%)	1 (2.70%)	2 (4.55%)
Tourette Syndrome or Tic Disorder	2 (2.47%)	0 (0.0%)	2 (4.55%)
Open in a new tab
Table 3.
Bivariate correlations among study variables.
	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
ADOS-SA-CSS	-								
AIM Communication	−.034	-							
AIM Social Reciprocity	.084	.606**
-						
AIM Peer Interaction	.011	.543**
.422**
-					
PedsQL Social Domain	.058	−.243*
−.251*
−.450**
-				
SRS-2 Total T-Score	.004	.548**
.572**
.548**
−.568**
-			
SRS-2 Social Awareness	.030	.327**
.394**
.217	−.192	.695**
-		
SRS-2 Social Cognition	−.112	.463**
.549**
.439**
−.459**
.808**
.409**
-	
SRS-2 Social Communication	−.009	.536**
.540**
.472**
−.549**
.961**
.706**
.732**
-
SRS-2 Social Motivation	.060	.393**
.407**
.639**
−.506**
.729**
.295**
.560**
.633**
Open in a new tab
a
ADOS-SA-CSS= ADOS-2 Social Affect Calibrated Severity Score; AIM= Autism Impact Measure; PedsQL= Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory; SRS= Social Responsiveness Scale, Second Edition
b*
p < .05
**
p < .01
Results
Baseline Group Comparisons
Diagnostic groups were compared on participant age, gender, ethnicity, race, household income, and IQ. Independent samples t-tests were performed for age and IQ comparisons. Due to small cell sizes, Fisher’s exact test was employed to compare groups by gender and ethnicity, and likelihood ratio tests were conducted to compare groups by race and household income. As diagnostic groups did not significantly differ in age (t(79) = −2.42, p = 0.07), gender (p = 0.72), ethnicity (p = 0.71), race (p = 0.18), household income (p = 0.09), or IQ (t(79) = 0.41, p = 0.54) these variables were not included as covariates in subsequent analyses. The ASD and ASD + ADHD groups were compared on baseline ADHD symptoms using the ABC Hyperactivity/Noncompliance subscale score. As expected, the ASD + ADHD group displayed greater symptoms associated with ADHD on average, t(79)=0.4, p = 0.01, compared to the ASD group.
Independent samples t-tests were performed to compare the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups on all measures of social functioning at baseline. Results indicated significant group differences on the ADOS-SA-CSS, t(79) = 5.80, p < 0.001, with the ASD group demonstrating more social impairment on average than the ASD + ADHD group. Significant differences were also observed on the SRS-2 Social Awareness T-score, t(79) = −2.29, p = 0.03, with the ASD + ADHD group having higher scores, indicating more difficulties on average than the ASD group. No significant differences were observed for any other SRS-2 subscale or the SRS-2 Total T- score, any of the AIM subscales, or the PedsQL Social Domain score (See Table 4).
Table 4.
Comparison of diagnostic groups on baseline clinical characteristics.
	M (SD)/n(%)	Significant Difference
	ASD	ASD + ADHD	
Full Scale IQ	101.41 (14.82)	100.00 (15.81)	t(79) = 0.41, p = 0.54
   Nonverbal IQ	101.27 (13.16)	99.18 (14.32)	t(79) = 0.68, p = 0.25
   Verbal IQ	99.95 (13.82)	102.36 (13.18)	t(79) = −0.80, p = 0.21
ADOS-SA-CSS	7.57 (1.62)	6.55 (1.88)	t(79) = 5.80, p < 0.001
AIM			
   Communication	23.89 (8.58)	23.73 (6.56)	t(79) = 0.09, p = 0.92
   Social Reciprocity	24.97 (6.58)	25.45 (6.54)	t(79) = −0.33, p = 0.74
   Peer Interaction	20.49 (6.04)	22.16 (5.21)	t(79) = −1.34, p = 0.18
PedsQL Social Domain	49.19 (18.62)	47.84 (23.06)	t(79) = 0.29, p = 0.78
SRS-2			
   Total	71.92 (9.58)	75.35 (9.27)	t(79) = −1.63, p = 0.11
   Social Awareness	70.97 (10.59)	76.22 (9.96)	t(79) = −2.29, p = 0.03
   Social Cognition	69.78 (9.80)	70.82 (10.29)	t(79) = −0.46, p = 0.65
   Social Communication	70.76 (9.79)	74.19 (9.95)	t(79) = −1.56, p = 0.12
   Social Motivation	66.76 (10.89)	68.82 (11.74)	t(79) = −0.81, p = 0.42
Open in a new tab
a
The ADOS- SA-CSS is a severity metric with a possible range from 1–10, with higher scores indicating greater impairment. The AIM Communication, Social Reciprocity, and Peer Interaction subdomain raw scores are empirically derived and higher scores indicate greater impairment. The PedsQL Social Domain score range is 0–100, with higher scores indicating better social functioning. The SRS-2 Total and Social Awareness, Cognition, Communication, and Motivation subscale scores are T-scores, with higher scores indicating greater impairment.
Time and Group Effects
Analyses were performed to compare the effects of time and diagnostic group status and on all measures of social functioning. Two-way repeated measures ANOVAs were conducted for most study measures (i.e., AIM subscales, PedsQL Social Domain, SRS-2 Total and Social Communication, Cognition, and Motivation subscales). ANCOVAs were performed for the two study measures that diagnostic groups significantly differed on at baseline assessment (i.e., ADOS-SA-CSS, SRS-2 Social Awareness).
Significant main effects of time were observed, but no significant group effects or interactions between time and diagnostic group were observed. Time effects are presented in Figure 1. There was a significant main effect of time observed on all AIM subscales, including Communication, F(1,79) = 22.84, p < .001, Social Reciprocity, F(1,79) = 7.31, p = .008, and Peer Interaction, F(1,79) = 23.87, p < .001; scores were significantly lower, indicating symptom improvement following participation in SCI. The main effect of time was also significant for the SRS-2 Total T-Score, F(1,79) = 25.00, p < .001, and all social subscales, including Social Awareness, F(1,79) = 10.80, p < .001, Social Cognition, F(1,79) = 12.99, p < .001, Social Communication, F(1,79) = 20.71, p < .001, and Social Motivation, F(1,79) = 23.87, p < .001. Scores were significantly lower, indicating symptom improvement following participation in SCI., No significant main effect of time was observed on the ADOS-SA-CSS (F = 0.09, p = .77) or PedsQL Social Domain (F = 4.72, p = .03).
Figure 1.
 
Open in a new tab
Scores on social measures as a function of time.
a ADOS-SA-CSS= ADOS-2 Social Affect Calibrated Severity Score; AIM= Autism Impact Measure; PedsQL= Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory; SRS= Social Responsiveness Scale, Second Edition
b ** p < .01
** p < .001
No main effects of diagnostic group were observed for the ADOS-SA-CSS (F = 0.03, p = .87), AIM Communication subscale (F = 0.004, p = 0.95), AIM Social Reciprocity subscale (F = 0.15, p = .70), AIM Peer Interaction subscale (F = 2.39, p = .13), SRS-2 Total T-score (F = 4.58, p = .04), SRS-2 Social Awareness subscale (F = 0.85, p = .36.), SRS-2 Social Communication (F = 3.89, p = .05), SRS-2 Social Cognition subscale (F = 1.41, p = .24), SRS-2 Social Motivation subscale (F = 1.36, p = .25), or PedsQL Social Domain score (F = 0.17, p = .68) at the set significance level.
Discussion
This study sought to further explore the impact of the co-occurrence of ASD and ADHD on social functioning and determine if youth with ASD and ASD + ADHD demonstrate similar treatment gains following a social competence intervention. Contrary to our hypothesis, significant differences were observed between the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups at baseline on two measures, the ADOS-SA-CSS and SRS-2 Social Awareness subscale. The ASD group displayed greater social impairment than the ASD + ADHD group on the ADOS-SA-CSS, consistent with results found by Salley and colleagues (2015), but inconsistent with results found by Harkins and colleagues (2021) that revealed no differences between these diagnostic groups. Such discrepancies likely reflect differences in sample characteristics. Notably, our sample was restricted by age (6–14; M age = 10.8 years) and IQ (≥ 75) and may represent an older group with fewer functional limitations compared to the sample reported by Harkins and colleagues (2021). Their clinically-referred sample had lower cognitive abilities (M IQ for ASD group = 73.13 and ASD + ADHD group = 86.99), younger age (M = 7.76), and more social and behavioral difficulties, which could explain the lack of significant group differences.
The finding that the ASD + ADHD group demonstrated more impairment on the SRS-2 Social Awareness subscale than the ASD group is consistent with results by Factor and colleagues (2017). Items within the Social Awareness subscale assess an individual’s ability to focus attention to where others are looking/listening and notice when they are making too much noise or interfering with others’ conversation. It is perhaps unsurprising that youth with co-occurring ADHD displayed more impairment, as social awareness requires that one attend to the environment, other people, and to how one’s behavior affects other people in that environment.
As expected, the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups presented similarly on measures of global social functioning (i.e., SRS-2 Total, PedsQL Social Domain) and specific social symptoms of ASD (i.e., SRS and AIM subscales) at baseline. The lack of significant group differences on the SRS-2 Total and most subscales is consistent with prior studies (Dellapiazza et al., 2021; Factor et al., 2017; McVey et al., 2018). Additionally, the ASD and ASD + ADHD groups scored similarly on the AIM Communication, Social Reciprocity, and Peer Interaction subscales, which suggests ADHD symptoms did not exacerbate the core symptoms assessed.
In the present study, youth with ASD and ASD + ADHD participated in a 15-week intervention focused on social competence (Stichter et al., 2010). Following the SCI, participants in both groups showed improvement on most measures of social functioning. Improvements were observed on the AIM Communication, Peer Interaction, and Social Reciprocity subscales, the SRS-2 Total Score and all social subscales (e.g., Awareness, Cognition, Communication, and Motivation). The social gains align with the curricular constructs of the SCI and prior research (Stichter et al., 2010, 2012; Stichter, Christ, et al., 2016; Stichter, Herzog, et al., 2016). Interestingly, significant improvements were not observed on the PedsQL Social Domain. This five-item scale measures social acceptance (e.g., being liked by peers, getting along with peers), social rejection (e.g., being teased by peers), and age-appropriate social behavior (e.g., keeping up during play). It is possible that social gains made during the SCI did not necessarily result in greater peer acceptance or decreased peer rejection at the time of post-testing. A longitudinal study found that youth with ASD with stronger social skills and fewer autistic characteristics experienced increased peer acceptance from one year to the next, while those with poorer social skills and greater autism symptoms experienced greater social rejection over time (Feldman et al., 2022). This supports the idea that peer acceptance is driven in part by an individual’s social competence, and can be improved over time (Santillan et al., 2019). Thus, it is possible that 15 weeks was not enough time for participants in this SCI study to demonstrate improved peer relationships on the PedsQL Social Domain. Further, while the SCI targets theory of mind and social communication, it does not explicitly address externalizing behaviors and repetitive and restricted interests/behaviors, which have been associated with decreased peer acceptance and increased social rejection (de Boer & Pijl, 2016; Rubin et al., 2006). Further, significant improvements were not observed on the ADOS-SA, which is unsurprising as this diagnostic tool was designed to determine categorical presence or absence of autism, but not to be sensitive to short-term change across relatively brief intervals.
The finding that participants in both diagnostic groups showed significant improvement on several measures of social functioning is promising and lends support to the effectiveness of the SCI for youth with ASD and co-occurring ADHD. Our results are in line with those of Deckers and colleagues (2016), who found that that ADHD symptoms did not moderate social gains following a similar intervention. Notably, their intervention included a heavy parent component, wrap around support, and individualized feedback, which may have aided skill acquisition, maintenance, and generalization for participants with ADHD symptoms. Deckers and colleagues did not compare social treatment gains between youth with ASD and ASD and clinically-diagnosed ADHD, perhaps due to small sample sizes.
This is one of only two studies to date to compare social skills treatment gains among youth with ASD as compared to those with ASD + ADHD. The first, by Antshel and colleagues (2011), found that youth with ASD showed improvement on the SSRS Total and the Assertion, Cooperation, and Responsibility subscales, while those with co-occurring ADHD did not. While the present study is similar to that of Antshel and colleagues (2011) in regard to intervention components and sample characteristics, there are noteworthy differences that may clarify differences in findings. The skill areas targeted by intervention are similar (e.g., emotion recognition, conversation skills, social problem solving), but the scaffolded teaching design and ongoing practice of recurring concepts is unique to the SCI. This structure and repetition may benefit participants with ADHD, as the SCI has been shown to improve certain executive functions, including the ability to attend, recall, monitor and inhibit responses, and apply rules to problems (Stichter, Christ, et al., 2016). The SCI is also five weeks longer than the intervention used by Antshel and colleagues, so the additional time on concepts and opportunities for practice and feedback may be helpful for youth with ASD and ADHD.
Measurement differences may also explain differences in findings. The SSRS, used by Antshel and colleagues, contains 55 questions that fall into two domains, Social Skills and Problem Behaviors. The Social Skills domain includes 38 items and comprises the Cooperation, Assertion, Responsibility, and Self-Control subscales that assess social skills in the home and community setting. The remaining 17 items assess behavioral difficulties, and scores in both the Social Skills and Problem Behaviors domains are combined to generate the total score. As a third of the items that compose the SRSS total score assess behaviors that map onto core symptoms of ADHD, it may be unsurprising that individuals with ASD and co-occurring ADHD demonstrate more impairment, and perhaps less improvement following intervention on this measure. Additionally, symptoms of inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity have been associated with worse performance on the Cooperation, Assertion, Responsibility, and Self-Control subscales in a study of youth with ADHD (Van Der Oord et al., 2005).
This study contributes to the growing body of research on the co-occurrence of ASD and ADHD. A primary aim of this study was to compare social functioning between youth with ASD and ASD + ADHD in efforts to reconcile the mixed findings that characterize the literature. The finding by Factor and colleagues (2017) that youth with ASD + ADHD display compounded difficulties with social awareness was replicated. Our results contribute to mixed findings regarding the ADOS-SA-CSS amid the co-occurrence of ASD and ADHD, and suggest that differences in sample characteristics contribute to mixed findings. Another aim of this study was to compare treatment response to a social skills intervention in youth with ASD with and without co-occurring ADHD. Findings suggest the SCI is associated with significant social gains and is effective for youth with ASD even in the presence of co-occurring ADHD.
Limitations and Future Directions
There are several limitations related to measurement, study design, and sample characteristics. This study assessed social functioning using several measures designed or validated for individuals with ASD. However, the study lacked multi-rater or direct measures that may have yielded more comprehensive information about social functioning across contexts. Additionally, it may have been informative to ask youth with ASD and ASD + ADHD about their perceived social abilities, social relationships, and barriers to social performance. Further, the present study would have been strengthened by inclusion of a more comprehensive, specific measure of ADHD symptoms. The ABC Hyperactivity/Noncompliance subscale was used as a measure of ADHD symptoms, and to confirm that the clinically-diagnosed group with ASD + ADHD displayed more severe ADHD symptoms. However, more information on ADHD symptoms/subtype and executive functioning would have strengthened the study. Lastly, measures of co-occurring psychiatric symptoms would have allowed for additional analyses. Consistent with prior research indicating that co-occurring ADHD is associated with increased psychiatric symptoms in youth with ASD (Lecavalier et al., 2018; Mansour et al., 2017), the ASD + ADHD group in the current study had more parent-reported psychiatric diagnoses than the ASD group. As co-occurring psychiatric symptoms may contribute to social challenges, and impaired emotional and behavioral regulation, future research on the ASD/ADHD comorbidity may seek to determine how additional psychiatric diagnoses impacts social challenges and social treatment outcomes.
There are also limitations associated with the pre-post study design. Follow-up data were not available and maintenance and generalization data may be important when considering the appropriateness of interventions for youth with co-occurring ADHD. Randomized controlled trials will be necessary to determine the effectiveness of the SCI and to determine which interventions are best suited for youth with ASD + ADHD.
Finally, there are limitations of the present study with regard to the sample. While the sample was relatively large and well-characterized, it was fairly homogenous. The lack of diversity with regard to race and ethnicity is a noteworthy limitation, as normative social behaviors are culturally-bound. As the sample was almost entirely male, and it cannot be assumed that findings would look similar among females. A growing body of research points to differences in the social presentations and social experiences of males and females with autism without ID (de Giambattista et al., 2021; Sedgewick et al., 2019; Wood-Downie et al., 2021). Future social treatment studies should consider gender in the context of treatment response and group composition. In the current study only a handful of females participated in almost all-male groups; it is unclear how the unbalanced gender composition impacted the treatment experience of participants. Further, as participants in this study had IQ scores at or above 75, findings cannot be generalized to youth with ASD and ID. Individuals with ID and/or significant language concerns may not achieve the same level of gains from the SCI. Additionally, the impact of co-occurring ADHD symptoms on social functioning and treatment response is likely very different among youth with ASD versus ASD + ID. Future studies should explore this, given the growing need for interventions that are accessible for youth with ASD + ID.
In conclusion, additional research is needed to determine which social interventions are most appropriate for youth with ASD + ADHD. Our findings suggest that youth with ASD + ADHD may benefit highly structured interventions with a scaffolded teaching design. It will be important for future psychosocial treatment studies in autism to report co-occurring conditions for participants and evaluate the role these symptoms have on treatment outcomes.

Abstract
Objectives
Autistic individuals and those diagnosed with ADHD are at greater risk for social difficulties, with evidence suggesting that the co-occurrence of these neurodevelopmental disorders may further exacerbate social challenges. Though social skill interventions have strong empirical support in autistic populations, fewer evidence-based social skill interventions for adolescents with ADHD exist. Further, the impact of co-occurring autism and ADHD diagnoses on social skill treatment response is unknown. This study aimed to investigate the comparative efficacy of the evidence-based PEERS® for Adolescents social skills intervention in adolescents with ADHD, autistic adolescents, and adolescents with co-occurring ADHD and autism.
Methods
Adolescents (N = 144; ADHD, n = 43; Autism, n = 60; ADHD + Autism, n = 41) and their parents participated in PEERS® for Adolescents and completed questionnaires on social functioning at pre- and post-intervention. PEERS® for Adolescents is a 16-week, parent-assisted social skills intervention that teaches ecologically valid skills related to making and keeping friends as well as handling conflict and rejection in peer relationships.
Results
At baseline, a MANCOVA revealed significant differences in social behavior by diagnostic group (ADHD, Autism, ADHD + Autism), F(10,218) = 3.60, p < .001. However, in a repeated measures MANCOVA, no significant differences in treatment response following PEERS® for Adolescents across diagnostic groups emerged, F(10,214) = 1.34, p = .209. As a whole, participants significantly improved across all assessed outcomes.
Conclusion
Results suggest that adolescents with ADHD, with or without a co-occurring autism diagnosis, benefit from the novel extension of PEERS® for Adolescents, showing improved social skill proficiency and decreased problem behaviors.
Similar content being viewed by others
 
Parents Perceive Improvements in Socio-emotional Functioning in Adolescents with ASD Following Social Skills Treatment
Article 21 November 2016
 
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
Chapter © 2017
 
Peer Relationships of Children and Adolescents with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
Chapter © 2026
Explore related subjects
Discover the latest articles, books and news in related subjects, suggested using machine learning.
•	Autism spectrum disorders
•	Child and Adolescence Psychology
•	Developmental Disabilities
•	Social Neuroscience
•	Social Cognition
•	Social Learning
•	Social Skills Interventions for Autism Spectrum Disorder
As neurodevelopmental disorders, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism both impact the neurobiological development of an individual and how they interact with the world. Differences are apparent in childhood for both autism and ADHD, though the predominant characteristics, strengths, and challenges are distinct. Neurodiversity does produce strengths for these populations, such that those with ADHD report and display greater cognitive dynamism, creativity, courage, energy, humanity, resilience, and transcendence (Sedgwick et al., 2019; White & Shah, 2006). Per autistic adults,Footnote1 the ability to hyperfocus, attention to detail, memory, honesty, and loyalty emerge as common autistic traits that can confer advantages (Russell et al., 2019). However, the differences associated with ADHD and autism also often confer challenges for these individuals, with some of these challenges stemming from societal expectations being misaligned with these populations’ neurobehavioral presentations. Youth with ADHD most frequently present with differences in their attention, organization, activity level, and/or impulse control (APA, 2013). In contrast, autistic individuals present with differences in their social communication (e.g., difficulties with nonverbal communication, atypical approach to conversation) and display patterns of restricted, repetitive behaviors (APA, 2013).
Notably, ADHD and autism also share significant transdiagnostic commonalities (Mikami et al., 2019). Studies have shown that ADHD symptoms (e.g., attentional changes, impulsivity, hyperactivity) are common in autism (Mayes et al., 2012). Research has shown increased irritability, sleep difficulties, and executive function differences are present in both children with ADHD and autistic children (APA, 2013; Craig et al., 2016; Eyre et al., 2019; Mayes et al., 2009). Most notably, the differences associated with both diagnoses often impact these populations in their relationships with others (Petrina et al., 2014; Ros & Graziano, 2018). Prior literature has demonstrated that youth diagnosed with ADHD experience higher rates of peer victimization and peer rejection, while also showing a tendency toward deterioration of friendship quality over time that is not observed in peers without ADHD, indicating a difficulty maintaining friendships (Normand et al., 2013; Sciberras et al., 2009; Taylor et al., 2010). Similarly, studies have shown that autistic youth are more likely to have fewer friends, be less actively engaged in social settings, and experience peer rejection and bullying when compared to neurotypical peers (Kasari et al., 2011; Maiano et al., 2016; Taheri et al., 2016).
Theoretically, the barriers to social engagement for those with ADHD may be driven by the presence of culturally inappropriate social behaviors (e.g., interrupting, intrusion on personal space, poor sportsmanship), while autism is more characterized by the absence of culturally normative social behaviors (e.g., less use of social initiations, gestures, facial expressions; Antshel & Russo, 2019; Mikami et al., 2019). Thus, it is plausible that the combined clinical presentation of both ADHD and autism may further compound social challenges. Though it has long been clinically observed that the symptoms of ADHD and autism frequently co-occur, only the most recent edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5; APA, 2013) has allowed for both diagnoses to be assigned. In a recent meta-analysis, the pooled current and lifetime prevalence rates of ADHD in autistic individuals were 38.5% and 40.2%, respectively (Rong et al., 2021). Among a large sample of children with ADHD (n = 2495), 13% were also diagnosed with autism (Zablotsky et al., 2020). These prevalence estimates suggest that the co-occurrence of these conditions is more common than would be expected given general population prevalence. Due to the recency of this change, the field’s knowledge of co-occurring ADHD and autism is still growing, and there is still debate regarding the etiology of the high rates of attentional deficits and differences in autistic populations (Hours et al., 2022).
Despite ongoing scientific study, the current literature suggests that those with both diagnoses may be a uniquely high-risk population in terms of social-emotional difficulty. When comparing the features of children diagnosed with both ADHD and autism to children with ADHD only, youth with both diagnoses had significantly greater treatment needs, were rated as having more severe ADHD symptoms, and were significantly more likely to be diagnosed with additional co-occurring mental health conditions (Zablotsky et al., 2020). Similarly, Sprenger et al. (2013) concluded that compared with those with autism alone, those with co-occurring ADHD and autism had significantly more severe autism-related symptoms, especially in the area of social interaction. Other studies have found similar additive risks and difficulties in populations with both ADHD and autism (Gordon-Lipkin et al., 2018; Jang et al., 2013). With respect to social skill proficiency specifically, the current limited evidence base suggests that autistic individuals, with or without an ADHD diagnosis, have significantly greater social challenges than those with ADHD alone (Dellapiazza et al., 2021; Harkins et al., 2021). However, more research is needed on those with co-occurring ADHD and autism, with particular attention needed for understanding adolescence as a crucial window for symptom constellations (Hartman et al., 2016).
Understanding and addressing the impact of neurodevelopmental disorders on social relationships is essential given the current scientific understanding that suggests friendships and a sense of belonging are especially critical in promoting positive identity development (Ragelienė, 2016). Social difficulties correspond to increased mental health problems in both those with ADHD and those with autism (Becker et al., 2017; Humphreys et al., 2013; Mayes et al., 2011; Ratcliffe et al., 2015). Further, for autistic people, social challenges have also been associated with poor academic performance in adolescence and poor employment outcomes in adulthood (Chen et al., 2015; Chiang et al., 2013; Hsiao et al., 2013). Similarly, in youth with ADHD, poor social acceptance has been linked to poorer quality of life and shown to exacerbate the negative relationship between inattention and academic performance (Dvorsky & Langberg, 2016, Dvorsky et al., 2018). Consequently, beyond understanding, it is also of critical importance to address the social difficulties associated with both neurodevelopmental disorders early in life to enhance long-term quality of life in both populations.
One of the most common approaches for mitigating social challenges in neurodiverse youth is social skills training (SST). SST approaches typically involve direct teaching of social skills (e.g., emotion recognition, body boundaries, nonverbal communication, conversation skills) in a small-group format, through didactic lessons (e.g., structured, educational modules), modeling, skills practice, positive reinforcement, and caregiver training (Moody & Laugeson, 2020). For autistic youth, SST interventions have been classified as an evidence-based practice, with over 40 group design studies in the literature (Hume et al., 2021). Though many studies and programs exist, the Program for the Education and Enrichment of Relational Skills (PEERS®) for Adolescents (Laugeson & Frankel, 2010) is the only evidence-based, publicly available manualized SST for autistic adolescents (Hume et al., 2021). PEERS® for Adolescents has been extensively studied in autistic youth, with a recent meta-analysis showing medium to large pooled effect sizes for multiple outcomes, including adolescent social knowledge and frequency of get-togethers as well as on standardized parent-report measures of social skills and social responsiveness (Zheng et al., 2021). Specific studies have also supported that PEERS® for Adolescents also produces positive changes in observed social behavior (Rabin et al., 2020), well-being (Lordo et al., 2017; McVey et al., 2016; Schiltz et al., 2018), and neurobiological indices (Baker et al., 2020; Van Hecke et al., 2015) in autistic youth.
Despite strong evidence for use in autistic youth, SST interventions in youth with ADHD have demonstrated mixed evidence. A comprehensive systematic review of SST programs for children and adolescents with ADHD including randomized and non-randomized control trial studies concluded that 88% of the SST interventions (n = 16) reviewed improved various social skill outcomes (Willis et al., 2019). Common characteristics of effective SST interventions for youth with ADHD identified in the review were similar to those cited for autistic youth, including similar content (e.g., good sportsmanship, conflict resolution), session length, program duration, small-group format, and some form of parental involvement. However, despite some evidence of benefit, many social improvements were not consistent across informants and did not maintain over time. Similarly, using the primary outcome of teacher-reported behavior, a Cochrane review concluded there was no beneficial effects of SST in youth with ADHD (Storebø et al., 2019). However, most of the identified studies only included children under the age of 12, revealing the SST literature in adolescents to be even weaker. A single meta-analysis of eight studies including but not limited to SST showed no benefit of interventions in improving social skill proficiency more broadly in teens with ADHD (Morris et al., 2021). Indeed, the only included study in this meta-analysis to demonstrate significant effects of SST in youth with ADHD examined PEERS® for Adolescents (Gardner et al, 2019).
In Gardner et al.’s (2019) study (n = 20), PEERS® for Adolescents was tested in teens with a previous diagnosis of ADHD. Results indicated significant increases in adolescents’ reciprocal friendships, get-togethers, and social knowledge. Nonsignificant benefits to friendship quality and social self-efficacy were also observed, and secondary analyses of the sample showed benefits to the family system more broadly (Gonring et al., 2017). Although the PEERS® for Adolescents program is clinically used widely for youth who struggle to make and keep friends regardless of their diagnosis, these promising findings have yet to be replicated in research to further solidify the efficacy of PEERS® for Adolescents in youth with ADHD. Given critical review of the overall mixed evidence for SST in youth with ADHD, researchers have called for inclusion of outcomes that assess ecological success (e.g., sociometric ratings), greater racial/ethnic diversity in samples, and greater empirical study of SST in adolescents (Storebø et al., 2019; Willis et al., 2019). Notably, Mikami et al. (2017) also highlighted increased reinforcement and reminders of culturally appropriate social behavior in real time with peers rather than after the fact with therapists as an important research direction for SST in ADHD. These elements, through practice with peers, live social coaching, and performance feedback, are included in every PEERS® for Adolescents session. Additionally, the PEERS® program’s emphasis on parent involvement and coaching outside of sessions also increases opportunities for in vivo reminders and reinforcement related to social behavior. As suggested by Mikami et al. (2017), these features are particularly well-suited to the needs of youth with ADHD who struggle with consistently performing culturally appropriate social behavior in the moment, despite having knowledge of such behavior, likely due to difficulties with impulse control and emotion regulation (Aduen et al., 2018). Further, the program directly addresses certain behaviors often present in ADHD (e.g., poor sportsmanship, interrupting).
SST research must also evaluate interventions specifically for individuals with co-occurring ADHD and autism — an area where empirical guidance is lacking beyond showing efficacy in ADHD alone. One study found that the effect of parent training in autistic children is moderated by the presence of ADHD with effects observed more readily in autistic children without ADHD (Lecavalier et al., 2017). This could suggest that co-occurring ADHD and autism may make it more difficult for children to benefit from parent training interventions. This study illustrates the need to rigorously examine psychosocial interventions to confirm benefits and understand risks in diagnostically complex individuals. To our knowledge, no research to date has examined how the co-occurrence of ADHD and autism may impact the efficacy of established social skills training approaches.
The current study’s objective was to examine the comparative treatment outcomes of adolescents with ADHD, autistic adolescents, and adolescents with co-occurring ADHD and autism following the PEERS® for Adolescents social skills intervention, delivered in an outpatient clinic setting. In doing so, we aimed to (1) replicate previous findings that produce benefits to social outcomes in youth with ADHD (e.g., Gardner et al., 2019) and (2) investigate program efficacy in adolescents with co-occurring autism and ADHD, which has yet to be established. It was hypothesized that all three groups would benefit significantly from the program, with the ADHD groups, regardless of the presence of autism, showing a less robust effect. This was posited given mixed findings from previous studies examining SST in this population, particularly for adolescents with ADHD, as discussed above (Storebø et al., 2019; Willis et al., 2019).
Method
Participants
Participants included families seeking social skills treatment through the UCLA PEERS® Clinic, an outpatient clinical setting, and data were drawn from a larger archival clinical database with approval from the university Institutional Review Board. Adolescent participants presented with a history of social difficulties and included 144 adolescents in middle school and high school with ADHD and/or autism ranging from 10 to 18 years of age. Adolescents and their parents engaged in a phone screening followed by an intake appointment with a postdoctoral psychology fellow or licensed clinical psychologist to determine eligibility. Eligibility criteria for entry into treatment included the following: (1) adolescent and parent were both fluent in English; (2) adolescent did not have a major mental illness (e.g., active psychosis); (3) adolescent was willing to be coached by their caregiver outside of the treatment setting; (4) adolescent was motivated to participate in the program and learn the skills taught in PEERS®; and (5) adolescent was able to comprehend session content and meaningfully participate in group format, as determined by clinician judgement. In determining an adolescent’s ability to meaningfully participate in the group format, intake clinicians attended to the adolescent’s expressive and receptive language (e.g., contingent responding, use of full sentences) during the intake when asking about hobbies, peer interactions, and mood. Adolescents who may need more support or a slower pace were provided referrals for certified PEERS® providers who could provide the content in an individualized, one-on-one setting. After determining eligibility and interest, participants were enrolled in PEERS® for Adolescents in cohorts of 10-12 persons. Cohorts were diagnostically heterogeneous with considerations based on age, developmental level, and social communication support needs of adolescents, as determined by clinician judgement, to ensure an ecologically valid social context for within-group practice.
Diagnostic information was gathered from parents and adolescents during the intake process. Given the changes in the DSM-5 (APA, 2013) that allowed both diagnoses to co-occur, we limited the sample to participants who participated between 2014 and 2020, in person prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Adolescents were classified into one of three groups (ADHD, n = 43; Autism, n = 60; ADHD + Autism, n = 41). Twenty-five percent of enrolled participants with the eligible diagnoses during the selected time period discontinued prior to completion of the PEERS® for Adolescents program. This attrition rate is lower than what is typically seen in youth outpatient mental health care (de Haan et al., 2013). No significant differences in attrition by diagnosis were present, χ2(2) = 1.15, p = 0.563. Anecdotally, the most common reasons for discontinuing treatment were scheduling conflicts and logistical challenges (e.g., travel time). Only participants who had completed pre- and post-treatment assessments on at least one primary outcome measure were included in the current sample of 144 adolescents.
Adolescent participants in the ADHD group (n = 43) were previously diagnosed with ADHD, inclusive of inattentive, hyperactive-impulsive, and combined presentations, without a diagnosis of autism. Those in the Autism group (n = 60) were previously diagnosed with autism and did not have a diagnosis of ADHD. Though not formally assessed in a comprehensive diagnostic evaluation due to the nature of outpatient services, adolescent participants generally presented with lower support needs (majority “Level 1; Requiring Support,” with some “Level 2; Requiring Substantial Support” in both the social communication and restricted, repetitive behaviors domains per the DSM-5; APA, 2013) given eligibility criteria. Participants in the ADHD + Autism group (n = 41) reported both previous diagnoses. Of note, some participants in all three groups had other co-occurring conditions (e.g., anxiety, depression).
Across the entire sample, the average age of participating adolescents was 13.9 years old (SD = 1.9). With respect to gender, 75.0% (n = 108) of the adolescent participants identified as male and 25.0% (n = 36) identified as female. Sixty percent (n = 87) of adolescent participants identified as White; 8.3% (n = 12) as Hispanic/Latinx; 6.9% (n = 10) as Asian; 2.1% (n = 3) as Black; and 22.3% (n = 32) as being from other/unspecified ethnic groups, including multiracial identities. Participating parent social coaches remained consistent throughout the 16-week intervention; parents were mostly mothers (81%) and highly educated (85% having a bachelor’s degree or higher). See Table 1 for more information on demographic and clinical characteristics of the sample by the three diagnostic groups (i.e., ADHD, Autism, ADHD + Autism). There were no significant differences by diagnostic group in adolescent gender, χ2(2) = 1.38, p = .501, or race/ethnicity (considered as a binary variable: White, BIPOC), χ2(2) = 2.30, p = .317. An ANOVA indicated significant differences by diagnostic group in age, F(2,140) = 3.46, p = .034. Post hoc comparisons with a Bonferroni adjustment indicated that adolescents in the Autism group (Mage = 14.3, SD = 2.0) were significantly older than those in the ADHD only group (Mage = 13.4, SD = 1.8), p = .045.
Table 1 Demographic characteristics across diagnostic groups
Full size table
Procedures
Following the phone screening and initial intake appointments, adolescents and their parents completed measures assessing participants’ social functioning. Following the 16-week intervention, adolescents and parents completed outcome measures again to assess change over course of treatment. Social functioning outcome measures are described in the Measures section.
PEERS® for Adolescents (Laugeson & Frankel, 2010) is a 90-minute 16-week intervention that utilizes a small-group format (e.g., 10-12 adolescents) with a concurrent parent social coach group. The groups consist of didactic lessons with concrete rules and steps of targeted social skills, role-play demonstrations, behavioral rehearsal exercises, and weekly ecologically valid socialization assignments. The structure of the group utilizes tenets of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), such as psychoeducation, Socratic questioning, skills building and practice, cognitive strategies, and homework assignments, through a social skill-focused lens. Topics discussed include conversational skills, sources of friends, electronic communication, use of humor, good sportsmanship, conversation entry and exiting strategies, organizing get-togethers with peers, handling conflict (i.e., disagreements), and navigating rejection (i.e., various types of bullying, bad reputations). See Table 2 for a list of session content by week. The rules and steps of social skills are demonstrated through content exemplars representative of developmentally normative adolescent social situations (e.g., high school, school clubs). Each session is dedicated to ecologically valid content related to making and keeping friends and developing more meaningful friendships, while social coaches simultaneously learn how to coach and maintain skill generalization beyond sessions.
Table 2 PEERS® for adolescents 16-week curriculum content
Full size table
Parent social coaching sessions were led by a licensed clinical psychologist and adolescent sessions were led by either a licensed clinical psychologist or postdoctoral psychology fellow, under the supervision of the developer of PEERS®. As a training clinic, the archival data from 2014 to 2020 included in this study spans approximately 13 group leaders across the social coaching and adolescent sessions; 85% of group leaders identified as female (15% male) and 69% identified as White (31% as BIPOC, including Asian and Hispanic/Latinx). The sessions were also supported by a team of 4-7 psychology undergraduate students, postbaccalaureate clinic coordinator staff, and allied health graduate students and pre-doctoral psychology interns who served as behavioral coaches. Throughout the 16 weeks, behavioral coaches assisted in tracking treatment fidelity, homework compliance, conducting role-play demonstrations, and providing performance feedback to participants during small-group behavioral rehearsals. Prior to leading and assisting in the groups, all group facilitators and behavioral coaches attended trainings in PEERS®. All members of the treatment team followed published treatment manual guidelines during groups (Laugeson, 2014; Laugeson & Frankel, 2010) and were supervised by the developer of the PEERS® intervention to maintain fidelity. Given that data were drawn from archival clinical database, no formal measures of fidelity are available. However, behavioral coaches informally monitored treatment fidelity throughout every session and notified group leaders if a rule or step from the lesson was missed. Of note, the clinical groups in the current study used a weekly 90-minute parent-assisted model as described in Laugeson and Frankel (2010); however, groups followed the school-based 16-week curriculum (Laugeson, 2014), which adds two additional sessions from the original parent-assisted model.
Measures
Demographic Questionnaire
Prior to the initial intake appointment, a questionnaire gathering general information regarding age, gender, ethnic background, diagnoses, education, and medication history was administered. Parents of participating adolescents completed the demographic questionnaire at baseline.
Social Skills Improvement System Rating Scales
The Social Skills Improvement System (SSIS; Gresham & Elliott, 2008) Rating Scales are norm-referenced rating forms completed by caregivers on behalf of children and adolescents ages 3 to 18. The SSIS parent form yields standard scores (M = 100, SD = 15) in two distinct domains: the Social Skills Domain, which contains subscales of Communication, Cooperation, Assertion, Responsibility, Empathy, Engagement, and Self-Control, and the Problem Behaviors Domain, which is made up of items from the Externalizing Problems, Internalizing Problems, Hyperactivity/Inattention, Autism Spectrum, and Bullying subscales. Items are rated by frequency (e.g., never, seldom, often, almost always) through Likert-scale response options and provide information specific to behaviors that may adversely affect the child or adolescent’s ability to develop relationships or utilize specific social skills. This measure is commonly used to measure treatment outcome in SST interventions and has been shown to be sensitive to differences in social skill proficiency among autistic adolescents (Moody et al., 2022). Social skill proficiency and positive behavioral functioning is indicated by higher scores on the Social Skills Domain and lower scores on the Problem Behaviors Domain, respectively. In the current study, both domains showed strong internal consistency: SSIS Social Skills α = 0.906 and SSIS Problem Behaviors α = 0.863. The SSIS was administered to parents at pre- and post-intervention to assess treatment outcomes related to social skills and problem behaviors.
Social Responsiveness Scale, 2nd Edition
The Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS-2; Constantino & Gruber, 2012) is a 65-item rating scale completed by caregivers that measures social behavior generally indicative of autism and distinguishes those behavior patterns from other disorders. The validity and reliability of the SRS-2 as a quantitative measure of core autism features related to social responsiveness in general have been supported through various studies (Bruni, 2014; Cholemkery et al., 2014). Each question on the measure is rated from 1 (“not true”) to 4 (“almost always true”). The SRS-2 yields a total T-score (M = 50, SD = 10) and five subscales: Social Awareness, Social Cognition, Social Communication, Social Motivation, and Restricted, Repetitive Behaviors. Higher scores on this measure indicate greater autism features and social challenges (T-scores ≥ 60 are considered within the clinical range). In the current study, items contributing to the SRS-2 Total score demonstrated strong internal consistency, α = 0.923. The SRS-2 was completed by parents at pre- and post-intervention to assess treatment-related outcomes in social responsiveness.
Test of Adolescent Social Skills Knowledge
The Test of Adolescent Social Skills Knowledge (TASSK; Laugeson, 2014) is a 30-item criterion-based assessment of adolescents’ knowledge of the skills taught in the PEERS® for Adolescents intervention. Items include sentence stems and two response options. There are two items for each of the 15 skill-based lessons, excluding the graduation session. Higher scores on this measure suggest greater adolescent social skill knowledge. Similar to previous research (Laugeson et al., 2009; Moody et al., 2022), the TASSK displayed poor internal consistency, α = 0.422, in the current study. This is likely influenced by a number of factors, including the binary nature of the data, its assessment of multiple very distinct social skills, and its focus on social skills knowledge, which may be more uneven than measures of social behavior (e.g., some teens may exhibit appropriate social behavior without being able to identify or articulate the purpose or rules of social behavior). The TASSK was administered to adolescents at pre- and post-intervention to assess treatment response in social skills knowledge.
Quality of Socialization Questionnaire
The Quality of Socialization Questionnaire (QSQ; Laugeson, 2014) is a self-report measure adapted from the Quality of Play Questionnaire (QPQ; Frankel & Mintz, 2011) to better capture adolescent social engagement. The QSQ includes 12 items, which assess frequency of hosted and invited get-togethers with peers in the past month, as well as conflict during get-togethers. For the current study, total number of get-togethers at pre- and post-intervention was calculated by summing the number of hosted and invited get-togethers. In children, the QPQ number of playdates successfully discriminates clinical populations from community controls (Frankel & Mintz, 2011). The QSQ has been used as an outcome measure in previous studies of the PEERS® for Adolescents social skills intervention (Laugeson et al., 2009, 2012) and represents an ecologically valid, real-world outcome of social engagement. The QSQ was administered to adolescents at pre- and post-intervention to assess changes in adolescent social engagement.
Data Analyses
MANCOVAs were utilized given the use of multiple measures intended to capture social skills proficiency and functioning. To analyze baseline differences in social skills proficiency across diagnostic groups, a MANCOVA was conducted including all outcomes of interest at baseline, with post hoc tests to explore specific differences between the three diagnostic groups of ADHD, Autism, and ADHD + Autism. To assess differences in treatment response from pre- to post-intervention, a repeated measures MANCOVA was utilized, again including all outcomes of social functioning. If significant group by time interaction emerged, follow-up univariate repeated measures ANCOVAs were planned to probe diagnostic differences in change over the course of treatment. In all analyses, age (centered on the sample mean) was included as a covariate given the significant differences by diagnostic group.
Results
Baseline Comparison
At baseline, the initial MANCOVA controlling for age revealed significant differences in social skill proficiency across the three diagnostic groupings (ADHD, Autism, ADHD + Autism), F(10,218) = 3.60, p < .001, with a large effect size, ηp2 = 1.42. Follow-up univariate ANCOVAs indicated that significant diagnostic differences emerged only on the SRS-2 Total score, F(2,138) = 12.68, p < .001, ηp2 = 1.55, and SSIS Social Skills Domain score, F(2,138) = 6.05, p = .003, ηp2 = 0.08. No significant differences at baseline emerged on adolescent problem behaviors, social skills knowledge, or get-togethers. On the SRS-2 specifically (see Fig. 1), post hoc comparisons with a Bonferroni correction indicated that those with ADHD (M = 67.1, SD = 9.8) were reported to have significantly fewer autism features and related social challenges than both the Autism group (M = 75.1, SD = 9.8), p < .001, and the ADHD + Autsim group (M = 77.2, SD = 9.7), p < .001. In contrast, on the SSIS Social Skills domain (see Fig. 2), adolescents in the ADHD + Autism group (M = 74.0, SD = 11.8) were rated as having significantly less well-developed social skill proficiency than either adolescents in the ADHD group (M = 82.5, SD = 11.9), p = .004, or the Autism group (M = 80.8, SD = 12.0), p = .019.
Fig. 1
 
Full size image
Baseline differences in SRS-2 Total T-scores across diagnostic groups. Note: Results indicated significant group differences, F(2,138) = 12.68, p < .001. SRS-2, Social Responsiveness Scale, 2nd Edition; ADHD, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. *p < .05. **p < .01.***p < .001
Fig. 2
 
Full size image
Baseline differences in SSIS Social Skills domain standard scores across diagnostic groups. Note: Results indicated significant group differences, F(2,138) = 6.05, p = .003. SSIS, Social Skills Improvement System; ADHD, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. *p < .05. **p < .01.***p < .001
Treatment Response
A repeated measures MANCOVA, with age as a covariate and including all treatment outcomes, further revealed a nonsignificant diagnostic group by time interaction, F(10,214) = 1.34, p = .209, with a moderate effect size, ηp2 = 0.060. Given equivalence across diagnostic groups, repeated measures ANOVAs collapsed across the entire sample revealed significant differences over time from pre- to post-intervention on all measured outcomes with large effect sizes, in the expected directions, indicating improved social skill proficiency and reduced problem behaviors. Specifically, results indicated a significant reduction in impairments in social responsiveness on the SRS-2 from pre-intervention (M = 73.5, SD = 10.5) to post-intervention, (M = 66.1, SD = 10.1), F(1,138) = 82.95, p < .001, ηp2 = 0.37. Overall, parents also reported a significant improvement in social skills (Mpre = 79.3, SD = 12.3; Mpost = 87.1, SD = 12.0), F(1,139) = 68.81, p < .001, ηp2 = 0.33, and reduced problem behaviors on the SSIS (Mpre = 125.3, SD = 14.0; Mpost = 117.2, SD = 13.9), F(1,138) = 64.57, p < .001, ηp2 = 0.32. Adolescents themselves demonstrated that they learned the skills taught in PEERS®, as measured by the TASSK, with a 10 point increase on this measure (Mpre = 14.7, SD = 3.4; Mpost = 24.6, SD = 4.3), F(1,126) = 609.74, p < .001, ηp2 = 0.83. Lastly, adolescents also reported a significant increase in the number of get-togethers they had in the previous month from pre- to post-intervention, F(1,123) = 31.54, p < .001, ηp2 = 0.20. Prior to PEERS®, adolescents had 2.8 get-togethers (SD = 4.0) in the previous month. In contrast, after the program, they reported having 5.8 get-togethers (SD = 5.1) in the previous month. See Table 3 for estimated marginal means, controlling for age, for each diagnostic group and corresponding ANOVA results for the full sample on pre- and post- outcome measures.
Table 3 Estimated marginal means of outcome measures pre- and post-PEERS® for Adolescents
Full size table
Discussion
We aimed to examine SST treatment response in various diagnostic presentations of neurodevelopmental disorders in adolescents, specifically extending the PEERS® for Adolescents evidence base beyond autistic adolescents to include both adolescents with ADHD and autistic adolescents with ADHD. The overall findings indicated that PEERS® for Adolescents is effective in improving social and behavioral functioning among all three diagnostic groups.
Although all groups benefited similarly, there were significant differences across diagnostic groups at baseline on certain measures of social skill proficiency. Both groups of autistic teens (Autism, ADHD + Autism) had significantly higher levels of core autism features on the SRS-2 than those teens with ADHD only. These findings would be expected given that the SRS-2 is designed to capture autism-related social challenges and features — which would be less prevalent in an ADHD sample without autism. Interestingly, the co-occurring diagnostic group of autistic adolescents with ADHD presented with significantly lower social skill proficiency on the SSIS Social Skills Domain as compared to the other groups. This is consistent with previous findings that the co-occurrence of both these neurodevelopmental disorders results in more treatment needs (Zablotsky et al., 2020), though is incongruent with other findings that autistic adolescents with ADHD do not differ from autistic adolescents without ADHD with respect to social challenges (Dellapiazza et al., 2021; Harkins et al., 2021).
The current results suggest that all three groups significantly improved, and to a similar degree, across all outcomes following PEERS® for Adolescents. The relative consistency in treatment response across diagnostic groups is especially interesting given baseline differences in social responsiveness and social skills. It is possible that the curriculum, which covers both foundational and complex skills, creates a context in which adolescents across a wide range of starting skills were able to benefit. Additionally, the equivalence in treatment gains may also reflect a consistent dose (16 weeks) of individualized social skills support via social coaching and homework review. Teens and parents may also have been susceptible to bias given their participation in the intervention and lack of blinding. Though additional study is needed, these results are especially encouraging given that previous research has only produced mixed or weak support for SST in ADHD (Morris et al., 2021; Storebø et al., 2019; Willis et al., 2019). In contrast, the present findings suggest that PEERS® for Adolescents may enhance the social skills and social functioning of youth with ADHD.
The pervasive gains across adolescent-reported outcomes of social skills knowledge and frequency of get-togethers, as well as parent-reported outcomes of social skills (SSIS), behavioral functioning (SSIS), and social responsivness (SRS-2) further bolster confidence in the efficacy of PEERS® for Adolescents for both non-autistic youth with ADHD and autistic youth with ADHD. Effect size estimates in the current study, which were considered large on all outcomes, were generally greater than the pooled effect sizes reported in meta-analytic results of the PEERS® for Adolescents program in autistic adolescents for the TASSK (large effects), SRS-2 (moderate to large effects), SSIS-SS (moderate to large effects), and QSQ report of get-togethers (moderate effects; Zheng et al., 2021). This may be expected given that the current study was conducted at UCLA, where PEERS® was developed, under the supervision of the developer, and in North America, the original cultural context. These factors are consistent with findings from the meta-analysis, which showed greater effects under these circumstances (Zheng et al., 2021). Of note, the magnitude of the effects showed a similar pattern as in the meta-analysis, such that the greatest effect size emerged on the TASSK and relatively smaller effects on the QSQ.
Across these neurodivergent youth, the increased frequency of get-togethers (QSQ) with peers suggests that social skills improvements being reported on standardized measures are indeed generalizing to contexts outside of treatment, resulting in more interactions with peers. Furthermore, the use of a real-world sample in an operating outpatient treatment setting also serves as a strength of this study. By including clinical complexity, such as the presence of other co-occurring mental health disorders like anxiety, the findings suggest the successful translation of PEERS® for Adolescents from closely controlled research samples to outpatient community settings.
Given that youth with ADHD may be more likely to experience significant peer rejection and social challenges, which may in turn negatively impact other areas of functioning (e.g., academics, mental health), PEERS® for Adolescents may be a powerful tool to ameliorate negative outcomes and provide support for teens with ADHD. The extension of PEERS® for Adolescents for use with this population has several advantages given the existing infrastructure to support rapid widespread dissemination and access, through the PEERS® global network of certified providers, publicly available manuals, translated and culturally validated protocols, and existing adaptations to be delivered in school-based settings. In summary, these findings suggest that participation in PEERS® for Adolescents may produce meaningful improvements in social engagement and relationship development for adolescents diagnosed with ADHD, autism, and/or co-occurring ADHD and autism.
Limitations and Future Directions
Although promising, the results of the current study are limited primarily in sample demographics and methodological rigor. We recognize there are many factors involved in social behavior variance including but not limited to individual experience (e.g., trauma history, emotional state), co-occurring diagnoses, local community culture, and generational/cohort effects. With lower representation of diverse racial and ethnic identities, particularly of Black youth, we are unable to confidently generalize these findings to all racial and ethnic groups. Additionally, as is often typical in autism research, the majority male sample warrants future investigation to confirm benefits in female-identifying participants as well as nonbinary participants, using oversampling to ensure adequate power. Although we limited our sample to clinical participants who completed the program in 2014 or later, it is possible that some participants with co-occurring autism and ADHD had not yet received both diagnoses given the recency of the DSM-5 change in 2013.
With regard to methodological rigor, analyses were conducted on archival clinical data from an outpatient treatment setting and were not collected in the context of a research study. Due to this methodological limitation, thorough and strict characterization of the sample (e.g., independent confirmation of diagnosis, assessment of ADHD symptom severity), random assignment, and blinded informants were not possible. Additionally, precise data on treatment fidelity were not collected in this clinical context; however, given the manualized and didactic nature of the PEERS® for Adolescents curriculum, weekly supervision and case conference meetings, and team monitoring throughout each group, the risk of significant deviations from treatment protocol is low. Outcomes measured at pre- and post-intervention intervals did not account for long-term follow-up after intervention, limiting our knowledge regarding persistence of social skill gains across the diagnostic groups assessed. Additionally, these outcomes did not include observational measures or school-based informants, such as teachers, to assess the full extent of skills generalization and external validity.
In addition to outcome measurement, it is also essential that social validity data be collected from youth with ADHD and their families who participate in PEERS® for Adolescents to enhance knowledge of the acceptability and feasibility of this intervention in this population, as well as their overall satisfaction. Systematic exploration into barriers in treatment and reasons for discontinuing the program before completion would also be critical to inform future clinical practice. Anecdotally, we have experienced families and youth with neurodevelopmental disorders (i.e., autism, ADHD) to be very satisfied with the program, including its teaching methods and feasibility, though concrete data would increase confidence in relation to broader dissemination and recommendations.
Future research might also replicate the current findings using a randomized control trial design with additional outcome measures (e.g., teacher reports, observational assessments, follow-up timepoints) to ensure benefits are attributable to the intervention, are generalizable, and maintain over time. Additional recruitment of more diverse samples representative of the USA and beyond will also enhance confidence in using PEERS® for Adolescents in community clinical practice with marginalized communities. As this study is the second to directly test and provide evidence for the use of PEERS® for Adolescents in youth with ADHD, it would also be beneficial to examine moderators of treatment response for this population, as they may be distinct from moderators for autistic adolescents.

Learning and Memory
 
Henry L. Roediger 111
Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA
Jeffrey D. Karpicke
Washington Cnicersity, St. Louis, Missouri, USA
Glossary
conceptual tests Measures of primina using retrieval cues that are conceptuallv related to studied items; these tests are considered to be conceptuallv driven because perforInance on them is affected by manipulating conceptual (meaning-based) processing.
cued recall A technique in which participants are proxided with retrieval cues and are asked to recall studied items related to the cues.
explicit memorv tests Measures of conscious, intentional recollection of specific learning events.
free recall A test in which participants recall as many studied items as they can, in any order they choose. implicit memory tests Indirect measures of retention.
perceptual tests Measures in which participants are asked to identify or complete degraded stimuli; these tests are considered to be perceptually driven because performance on them is affected by manipulating perceptual processing. priming Improvement in performance on a test that assesses retention indirectlv; the measure of priman- interest in ilnplicit memorv tests.
recognition tests Measures in which test participants are asked to decide. whether they recognize test items from the studv list, amid distracters or lures a yes/no recognition test). or are asked to pick out the correct test item from a set containing distracter items (a forced-choice recognition test). word fragment completion Test in which participants are presented with word fragments and are asked to complete them; priming is measured as the improved abilitv to complete fragnnents with words that had been previouslv presented.
Learning and memory can be measured in a variety of wavs. Some of the prolllinent methods of measuring
 
retention are based on several popular paradigms used in cognitive psychology. These are survevecl in this article; coverage is selective and other techniques exist for more specialized purposes. Different measures of Inemorv, even for the same experiences, mav not always agree in their assessinent, and such dissociations alnong memory tests proxide important insights into the proper understanding of human tnemory.
Origins of Memory Measurement
Achievements of Hermann Ebbinghaus
Encyclopedia of Social Measurement, Volunne 2 02()()5, Elsevier Inc. All Rights Reserved.	479
The measurement of learning and memorv dates back to the seminal work of Hermann Ebbinghaus, who developed the first reliable measures of memory and published his original results in 1885 in his great monograph, Memory: A Contribution to Experinzental Psychology. Ebbinghaus created lists of nonsense svllables (e.g.  JUK-WAF-KOB, etc.) that varied in terms of their length. He measured the number of trials (or the amount of time) it took to learn each series of syllables, to accomplish one perfect recitation of the entire list, a measure he called original learning. After a retention interval that could last several minutes, hours, days, or even weeks, Ebbinghaus measured the nurnber of trials (or the time) it took to relearn the list of syllables. The difference between measures of original learning (OL) and later relearning (RL) is known as the savings in relearning. For example, if it took 20 trials to learn a series of syllables perfectly during original learning and, later, it took 10 trials to relearn the series, the savings in relearning would be trials. Ebbinghaus expressed retention performance as a savings score, defined as [(0L -RL) OLI x 100 (or 50% sayings, in this exanil)le 
One beauty of the savings method, and one reason Ebbinghaus preferred it, was that retention could be measured independently from whether the person being tested could consciousl\ recall amthing from the original learning experience. Even if a person does not have any recollection ofthe original list, retention ofthe experience can be detected by the Inethod of calculating savings in relearning. Thus, a decade before Freud proposed his ideas about unconscious melilories, which led several generations of psvchologists to wonder how unconscious Inemories could be studied einpirically, Ebbinghaus had already supplied one pronlising solution to the problem: the method of savings in relearning.
Strength Theory and Measurement
One beguiling idea about human memory is that rnemories varv in terms of a unidilnension•al quantity, often referred to as "memory strength." Memories that can be easily recalled are thought to have greater strength  whereas those that can be recalled only with difficulty are thought to be weaker. Although (without further elaboration strength theorv silnpl\ redescribes the phenolllenon to be explained. nonetheless, the notion of  strength has been reifie(l in several conceptions of Inemory and still holds currency in various forms even today. Strength theorv also makes a strong prediction regarding the measurement of noenoorx : if memorv strength is the critical qualitv determinin(l performance on any Inemory test, then different Ineasures of memory should be correlated (even though they Illay vary in their ability to detect tnemories of different strengths). That is, although sonne measures mav be more sensitive than others, all vnenorv tests ultimatelv assess the same underlying qual  ity of mem01Y strength.
Consider the following simple example. A brpical laboratory method of assessing retention involves the initial presentation of a list of words and thc measurement of performance on one or more rnenun•y tests given at a later tilne. Consider five words (itenms A, B, C, D, and E) presented within a longer list ofwords. After studying the list, one group of individuals is given a sheet of paper and simplv asked to recall as nyanv of the words as thev can remember, in any order they choose. Assume that B and D are recalled on this flee recall test. A second group of individuals is given a noelnory test in which words that are associated with the studied words are presented as cues. For example, if "chair" had been a word presented on the study list, "table" Inight be given as a cue. The study participants might now recall more items on this cued recall test than they could on the free recall test. Finally, a third group ofindividuals is given a memory test in which items that had actually been presented on the studv list (such as chair) are mixed in with other plausible candidate items that had not been presented (such as stool). In this recognition melnory test, study participallts are asked to identify the itelns that had been presented on the original studv list.
The ideas behind strength theon are illustrated in Fig. l. The different items presented on the studv list
 
(A through E) vary in terms of their strength, with items B and D being the strongest. According to strength theory, free recall is an insensitive naeasure of memory, because only Inelnories with the greatest level of strength are recalled. Free recall tests require a great amount of strength to cross the conversion threshold for recall, indicated by the top dashed line in Fig. l. Cued recall tests are more sensitive measures and are able to detect weaker memories, such as item C in Fig. l. Finalk, recognition menuory tests are the most sensitive Ineasures of mem01Y strength; they are able to detect all iteTns recalled in free and cued recall tests and one additional item E) that was too weak to be detected bv the other Inethods. In short, the principal   of strength theolv are that particular memories vamy in terms of their strength and that methods of assessing retention dilTer only in terms of their sensitivity to Inernory strength.
This storv is tidv but wrong. In fact, différent measures of memory assessed across items, people, or other independent variables are not always positively correlated, as predicted strength theory. In fact, measures of memory may be completely uncorrelated or even negatively correlated xvith each other. For exalnple, consider the effects o word frequencv i.e., the frequencv with which a word occurs in a language) on Inemory performance measured on two clifTérent meni01Y tests. In free recall  tests, high-frequency words tend to be better recalled
Free recall
Cued recall
Recognition
Memory traces
Figure I Strength theory. DifTerent memorv traces (A through E) vary in terms of their strength and different measures of I'llennory differ in their sensitivity to memory strength.
than low-frequencv words are. Thus, it is reasonable to conclude that high-frequency words are stronger collipared to low-frequency words. However, in recognition Inelnory tests, low-frequencv words better recognize(l than high-frequency words, leading to the odd conclusion that low-frequency words Inust have greater Inenujry strength than high frequency xvords. Neither conclusion is correct. Instead, interactions between independent variables and performance on different memcny tests indicate that strength theory is simply the wrong way to conceptualize human me,lnorv. DifT&rent measures of Inenoorv do not assess a single qualitv that varies along a single dimension.
Encoding/Retrieval Interactions and Their Implications
Processes of learning and menujry are typically conceptualized as invoking three stages: encoding, storage, and retrieval. Encoding is the initial registration ancl acquisition of information, storage is the maintenance of information over time in the nervous system (represented as a Inelnory trace), and retrieval is the process whereby stored information is brought back into conscious awareness or otherwise affects ongoing Strength theory essentially proposes that encoding conditions will produce main effects on performance measured on different memory tests and will never interact with retrieval conditions, because different memorv tests silnpl\  vary in terms of their sensitivitv to memorv strength  However, the literature on hunran memory is replete with exalnples in which encoding and retrieval conditions interact. The example Inentioned previouslv, that highfrequencv words are better recalled than low-frequencx  words are, whereas low-frequencv words are better recognized than high-frequency words are, is one example of an encoding/retrieval interaction.
Larry Jacoby has (lesigned ccnnpelling experiments deI-nonstrating that two different Illeasures of noemorv with great surface similarity can be uncorrelated or even negatively correlated. Participants in Jacoby's experilnents were presented with lists ofwords under various study conditions and were given one of two different menoorv tests. One (Troup of indi\iduals was given a standard ves/no recognition memory test, in which they were presented with a long list of test words and were asked to determine which words had been previously studied. The other group ofindividuals was given a test that invok ed identifyingwords presented at verv
 
fast rates (around 30 Insec per word . The proportion of words correctly identified was the dependent Ineasure. Some of the words flashed during the test had been presented on the study list but other test words had not been  studied. In this speeded word identification test. the improved ability to name the briefly flashed words that had been presented during the study phase is known as pHming.
In one of Jacoby's experiments, the independent variable was the level of processing of words during the study phase. Students were presented with one of three questions that oriented them toward either the surface features of the target word (e.g., "Is the word in all capitals?"), the sound of the word (e.g., "Does the word rhyme with chair?" ) , or the meaning of the word (e.g., "Is the word a type of animal?" ) before the presentation of each target word e.g., BEAR). These three different orienting questions manipulated the level of processing that individuals performed on each word. The effects of levels of processing on performance in the two different Inetnory tests are depicted in Fig. 2. In the recognition noemors test, the fipical levels of processing effect was observed: individuals were best at recognizing words they had processed at a meaningful level and worst at recognizing words they had processed at only a surface level, whereas processincr the sounds of the \vords produced intertnecliate recognition perfbnnance. In contrast, consider performance on the speeded word identification test, shown in the right panel of Fig. 2. In this test, priming was measured as the difference in performance between naming studied and nonstuclied \vorcls. Although all of the prillling scores were positive, indicating retention of the studied words, all three encoding conditions produced equivalent levels of prinling! Levels of processing, which had such a profound effect on recognition had no effect on priming. Although both tests were measuring retention of the sanie list of items, the two measures were completely uncorrelated in this experiment.
In another experiment, Jacoby (lennonstratecl that Ineasures of recognition memory and speeded word identification could even be negativelv correlated. In this experiment, individuals studied a list of words under one of three clifTörent encoding conditions: they were either asked to read the target words in a neutral context (XXXX-cold), to read each word paired with its opposite (hot-cold), or to generate each target word given its opposite (hot-????). Thus, in all three conditions, participants said out loud the same list of target words, but the Ineans of having participants produce the words diff&red drannaticalh. The effects of these encoding manipulations on perfbrmance in the two different memory tests are shown in Fig. 3. Although generating the target words produced the best performance on the recognition test and reading the words in a neutral context produced the worst perforrnance a finding  as the "generation effect"), the opposite pattern of results was observed in the speeded word identification test: reading the words proclucecl better identification perfbrmance than did generating the words! The results of Jacobv's experiment demonstrate that two
	Recognition memory test	Word identification test
 0.30
	Surface	Sound 	Meaning	Surface	Sound	Meanincy
Level of processing
Figure 2 Levels ofprocessing during encoding have a profound effect on recognition                  performance, but no effect on speeded word identification. The two memory tests are not correlated. Based on data from Jacoby and Dallas (1981).
	Recognition memory test	Word identification test
 
	Neutral 	Opposite Generate 	Neutral 	Opposite Generate
	(XXXX-c01d) (hot-cold) (hot-2'?'?'?) (XXXX-c01d) (hot-cold)	 	 	 	 	 	   	  	 
Encoding condition
Figure 3 Generating words during encoding produced better recognition, conopared to simply reading words (the generation effect). In contrast, reading words produced better performance on the word identification test, compared to generating words. The two rnelnorv tests are negatively correlated. Based on data from Jacoby
(1983).
Ineasures of memory that appear to be verv similar on the surface mav be negativelv correlated NNith each other under some circumstances.
Interactions between encoding and retrieval conditions clenlonstrate that Ineasures of retention can reveal positive, zero, or negative correlations with one another. These encoding/retrieval interactions have an important implication for understanding human memorv: although the concept of memorv is labeled with a single word, it is hardly a single entity. Many different types of memory exist, and there are several different valid measures of memory. Some of the most prominent wavs to measure memorv are considered in the following discussions.
Explicit Measures of Retention
One important distinction in the field of human memorv
 
is that between explicit and implicit measures of memory. Briefly, explicit memory tests involve conscious, intentional recollection. If vou are asked to describe what vou had fbr dinner two nights ago, vou must mentally travel back in time and retrieve information about that specific event. Explicit retrieval involves conscious awareness of this mental time travel. Endel Tulving has referred to explicit retrieval as involving the use of episodic memorv, a memory svstem that enables people to remember their personally experienced past. There are several differences between explicit and implicit measures of retention; in the next section, several different explicit tests commonly used in research on human memorv are described.
Free Recall
In most explicit tests of memory, participants are exposed to a set of material on which thev will be tested at a later point in time. The material can consist of words, pictures, sentences, stories, videotapes, and other tvpes of data. In a free recall test, participants are asked to recall as many of the studied itelns as they can, in any order they choose. Because no overt retrieval cues are provided, thev must relv on their own strategies in order to retrieve the items. Free recall is perhaps the most effortful explicit memory test.
Cued Recall
In a cued recall test, participants are provided with retrieval cues and are asked to recall the studied items related to the cues. Retrieval cues can have a high or low associative strength a measure of their degree of association NNith the target words). For example, "table" might be a strong cue to retrieve the word "chair," whereas "glue" would be a weak cue in this case. A rehieval cue can also be a graphemic cue, in which a portion of the word is prmided at test (e.g., "ta or le" or "t b "). Yet another type of retrieval cue is a phonemic or rh\ming cue: participants mav be told to recall studied words that rhyme with the cue words. For example, "bear" might be pro\idecl as a cue to recall "chair." Although these are the most common types of retrieval cues, others can also be developed.
Recognition Tests
Recognition memory tests are perhaps the most popular In easures ofexp]icit memory used in cognitive psvchologv. There are two basic types of recognition memory tests. In a free choice or yes/no recognition menu)ry test, participants are presented with a long list of test words and are asked to sav "ves" if thev recognize a word from the study list (thus, thev are free to say "yes" or "no" to each item . For example, ifparticipants studied 100 words, thev might be presented with 200 words during the test (the 100 studied words mixed in with 100 distracter words) and asked to make a yes/no response for each item. Two basic measures of recognition performance are obtained in this test: the hit rate (the probability of sa_ving "yes" to words that were actually studied and the false alarm rate (the probability of saving "yes" to words that were not studied). The false alarm rate can be interpreted as a measure of false recognition and can also be used to correct
performance for guessing by subtracting the false alarm rate from the hit rate). Although a yes/no recognition memory test can be thought of as a 2-point scale for judging recognition, the scale can also be expanded by asking participants to provide confidence ratings. For example, participants might be asked to judge each iteln according to a 6-point scale, ranging from I (sure the item was not studied) to 6 (sure the item was studied). Such fine-grained scales provide the researcher with Inore information regarding participants' decisions during the recognition Inen-lorv test.
The other primary- five of recognition memory test is the forced choice recognition Inemory test. In a forced choice test, participants are presented with several alternatives on the test (one preliouslv studied item embedded among several distracter or lure items and are required to choose the item that they think was presented in the study list. For example, participants might be presented with  'chair table dresser lamp" and asked to choose the item that thev studied. If all of the response alternatives are equallv likelv to have been studied the guessing level can be determined depending on the number of alternatives. For example, in a two-alternative test, 50% reflects chance-level performance, whereas in a three-alternative test, 33% reflects chance-level performance.
Although recognition and recall tests are both explicit measures of memory, they do not always produce the same results. As mentioned previously, although people are better at recalling high-frequency words than low-frequency words, they are better at recognizing low-frequencv words than high-frequency words. As another example, when adults of difT&rent ages are compared in their performance on a free recall test, older adults typically recall less than vounger adults do. However, on recognition memory tests, older adults often perform just as well as younger adults do. These dissociations illustrate that recall and recognition memory tests measure different aspects of retention and cannot be, considered equivalent.
Paired Associate Learning
Another popular method of studying Inemory is paired associate learning. In a paired associate learning test, participants are presented with pairs of items, such as knight—heaven, elephant—house, flower—camera. and so on. Later, thev are given the left-hand member of the pair e.g., knight) and are asked to recall the righthand member of the pair (heaven). This type of paired associate learning test measures the forward association between the pairs ofwords that is formed during learning. Research ers can also investigate backward associations bv providing the right-hand member (heaven and asking participants to recall the left-hand member (knight). In general, recall of forward associations is better than recall of backward associations. Because forming associations tunong experiences is thought to be a basic mechanism of learning, paired associate learning has been investigated since the beginning of memory research, notably by M ary Calkins, in 1894. Note that the paired associate learning procedure can be considered a type of cued recall.
Serial Recall
Although paired associate learning has been used for over 100 years, serial recall is actuallv the oldest memorv paracligm, first used by Francis Nipher in 1878 and by Ebbinghaus in 1885. In a serial recall test, participants are presented with a series of items (such as digits, letters, words, or pictures and are asked to recall the items in the order in which they were presented, working from the beginning to the end of the series. Recalling a telephone nunlber is an everyday example of a serial recall task: the digits in a telephone nulnber must be remembered in correct sequential order. Thus, memorv both for the items and for the order in which they occurred is critical. A more difficult variation on this task is backward serial recall, in which a person is presented with a sequence, such as 7923948, and is asked to recall the sequence in backward order (8493297). Backward recall is often used in melnory• assessment batteries, because people with brain clanrage, for example, show greatly impaired performance on this type of task.
Implicit Measures of Retention
In addition to the explicit Ineasures of memory, there is an entire other class of tests, implicit memorv tests; these are superficiallv similar to explicit tests, but measure reten  tion indirectly. For example, consider an experiment in which some participants are presented with a list of pictures (with one being of an elephant) and other participants are presented with a list of words (the names of the pictures, so the word "elephant" is presented). Following this initial presentation phase, participants are told that they will now perform a difTérent, unrelated task, and nothing is said about testing their memorv for the list of items. In one such test, participants are presented with word fragments ("e e h n " and are asked to complete them (as in the game SVheel of Fortune . Some of the correct answers, such as "elephant,' were presented on the study list, whereas others are not. The difference in the ability to complete studied versus nonstudied fragnnents is a measure of prinfng, the Ineasure of primary interest in studies of implicit memory.
In the rest of this section, two main types of implicit memory tests, perceptual tests and conceptual tests, are described.
Perceptual Implicit Memory Tests
Perceptual tests present a puzzle or challenge to the perceptual system. Participants are typically asked to identify or complete a degraded stimulus, such as identifving a brieflv flashed item or completing an object presented in a fragmented format. These implicit memory tests are considered to be perceptually driven because performance on them is affected greatly by manipulations of perceptual processing and less (if at all) bi manipulations of meaning-based processing. Several examples are considered in the following discussions.
Word Fragment Completion
In a word fragment completion test, individuals are presented word fragments and are asked to complete them, which is difficult if the correct answer has not been recently primed and much easier if it has been primed. In a typical word fragment completion experiment, the probability of completing a fragment that \vas not primed is about 0.30, and the probability of completing fragments after studying a list ofwords is about 0.60 (a 30% priming effect). However, after studying a series of pictures (such as a picture of an elephant), negligible priming effects are observed (0—5%), which indicates that even though [he concept (elephant) mav be primed, performance on a word fragment completion test depends on priming specific perceptual representations. In contrast, on explicit memorv tests such as recall or recognition, pictures are remembered better than words are, a finding known as the "picture superioritv effect." Changes in presentation modality (i.e., auditory or visual) also affect priming in word fragment completion. Visual presentation of words produces the greatest amount of priming, whereas auditorv presentation produces reduced levels ofpriming. The effects of presentation modality on word fragment completion proside additional evidence that it is a perceptually driven test.
Word Stem Completion
In a word stem completion test, individuals are presented with the first three letters of a word ("ele ") and are asked to complete the stem with the first word that comes to mind. This test differs from word fragment completion because participants could potentiallv produce several different words from the same stem ("element, elegant, elevate, eleven," etc.). Priming in a word stem completion test is Ineasured as the difference between the ability to complete primed word stenos versus those that were not prilned. Like word fragment completion tests, perfornyance on word stem completion tests is also affected by perceptual manipulations.
Word Identification
Prilllin o can also be measured in a word identification test. In a tvpical word identification test, participants are asked to identify briefly presented words, and priming is measured as the difference between identifying previously studied versus nonstudied words. Pritming in word identification tests can also be measured under auditorv presentation conditions, in which participants might be asked to identify words presented against a background ofnoise.
Other Perceptual Tests
There are several other implicit memorv tests that are perceptual in nature. For example, participants might be presented with picture fragments and, fbllowing the sallie logic presented previously, asked to guess the identitv of the picture. Likewise, there are several auditorv implicit memorv tests, in which test words are presented in noise or with portions of the words deleted. Because these tests are also afTected greatly by manipulations of perceptual processing during encoding, they are classified as perceptual implicit memorv tests.
Conceptual Implicit Tests
In conceptual implicit memory tests, participants are provided with cues that are conceptuallv related to primed itelns. \Vhereas perceptual tests are affected bv manipulations of perceptual processing, conceptual tests are not affected by perceptual manipulations but, instead, are affected bv manipulating conceptual (meaning-based) processing. Three examples are categorv association, word association, and general knowledge tests.
Category Association
In categorv association tests, participants are presented with lists of items such as "elephant") during an initial phase and are later asked to generate as manv instances from a category (such as "animals") as they can during a brief testing period (lasting 3()—60 seconds). Priming is measured as the greater probabilitN of producing words that had been presented earlier than words that were not presented. In category association and other conceptually driven tests, priming is increased when the words are initially encoded in a way that emphasizes their meaning rather than other aspects of the words (such as the surface  or sound of the words).
Word Association
Word association tests are velY similar to category association tests. However, the retrieval cue in a word association test is an associate of the target word such as '-tusk"), rather than the namne of a categorv. Priming in word association tests is also affected by manipulations of conceptual processing during encoding.
General Knowledge Tests
As the name implies, general knowledge tests require participants to answer general knowledge questions. For example, they might be asked, "What animal aided the general Hannibal in his attack on Rome?" Participants who had   been presented with the word 'Celephant" will be more likelv to produce the correct answer to this question, compared to participants who had not been primed with the correct answer. Once again, priming on this test is not affected by manipulating perceptual processing ofthe studied words (e .g., modal i tv ofpresentation  but is affected bv manipulating conceptual processing.
Other Measures of Memory
In addition to the measures of learning and memory already discussed, there are many more ways to test meniory. Several tests have been designed to measure working memorv capacitv, which is the abilitv to hold information in mind and resist interfering information. One popular measure of working memory capacity is the operation span task, in which test participants are presented with a series of math problems followed by target words (for example, "12 >< 8 96, \VINE"). Participants must read the problem out loud, sav whether it is true or false, and then read the target word. After a series of 2 to 10 operations such as these, participants are asked to recall all of the target words in the order in which they were presented. The average length of the lists that are recalled in correct serial order is the participant's operation span. Nleasures of working memory capacity such as the operation span task are correlated with measures of general fluid intelligence and also predict perfornvance on a wide variety of other cognitive tasks.
Other memorv tests have been designed to measure autobiographical memory, which is a person's memory fior their own life histomy. One popular technique for measuring autobiographical memomy is the Galton—Crovitz cue word method, in which participants are presented with a word or phrase nanoing a common object or activitv and are asked to recollect an experience from their lives related to this cue. For example, a person who is presented with the cue "nurse" may recall an event from when they were 5 years old in which they went to the hospital and were frightened by a scarv nurse. One finding
frotn research using this technique is that people in later lif@ (50 years and older) most frequently retrieve memories from the period of their life lasting from late adolescence to young adulthood (roughly ages 16 to 25). Experiences from these formative years seem especiallv likely to come to mind.
There are also several standardized measures of memory used in educational testing and neuropsychological testing (for example, to assess whether a person with brain damage has memorv impairments . The NVechsler Memory Scale and the California Verbal Learning Test are two widely used standardized meniory tests. Tests such as the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) or even different measures ofintelligence can also be considered as tests that, in
 Ineasure recall of information learned during a lifetime similar to the general knowledge tests) 
Concluding Remarks
Although measuring human learning and memorv mav  seein to be a straightforward enterprise at first blush, there is no single correct method of measuring retention. Instead, several diverse measures are used for different purposes to assess various aspects of a person's memomv. Most importantly, difTérent methods of testing memory for the sanie experiences can be completely uncorrelated or even negativelv correlated with each other. These findings have important implications for our conceptualization oflnemon•. Memorv does not refer to a single, unitarv property of the nnind, and dissociations an•ong measures of retention indicate that several different memory processes and systems work together to produce the complexitv of human memorv.
See Also the Following Articles
Behavioral 	Psvcholog • Cognitive	Maps • Cognitive
 • N'lusic Cognition • Spatial Cognition and
Perception
Further Reading
Balota, D. A. Dolan, P. O.. and Duchek, J. M. 2000).  changes in healthv older adults. In The Oxford Handbook of Memory E. Tul\ing and F. I. M. Craik, eds.), pp. 395—410. Oxford University Press, Oxford.
Blaxton, T. A. (1989). Investigating dissociations among memorv measures: Support for a transfer-appropriate processing framework. J. Exp. Psychol. Learn. Mem. cognit. 15, 657-668.
Calkins, M. W. (1894). Association: 1. Psychol. Ret. 1, 476-483. Conway, M. A. (1996). Autobiographical Inenncny. In Memory (E. L. Bjork and R. A. Bjork, eds.), pp. 165 194. Academic Press- San Dieao.
Craik, F. I. NT., and Tulving, E. (1975). Depth of processing and the retention of words in episodic memory. J. Exp. Psychol. Gen. 104, 268-294.
Ebbinghaus, H. (1964). Mejnory.• A Contribution to Experimental Psychology (H. A. Ruger and C. E. Bussenius. trans. . Dover, New York. (Original work published in 1885.)
Engle, R. W. (2002). Working memory capacity as executive attention. Curr. Dir. Psychol. Sci. Il, 19—23.
Freud, S. , and Breuer, J. (1960). Studies on Hysteria (J. Strachey, trans.). Avon Books, New York. Original work published in 1895.)
Gregg, V. (1976). Word frequency, recognition and recall. In Recall and Recognition (J. Brown, ed.), pp. 183—216. Wilev, New York.
Jacoby, L. L., and Dallas, M. (1981 . On the relationship between autobiographical memorv and perceptual learning. J. Exp. Psychol. Gen. 110, 306-340.
Jacoby, L. L. (1983). Rememnbering the data: Analyzing interactive processes in reading. J. Verbal Learn. Verbal Behav. 22, 485—508.
Nipher- F. E. (1878). On the distribution of errors in numbers written from memory. Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis 3, ccx—ccxi.
Roediger- H. L., Marsh, E. J. , and Lee, S. C. (2002). Varieties of memory. In Stevens' Handbook of Experimental Psychologt]. Third Edition, Volume 2: Alenzory and Cognitive Processes D. L. Medin and Il. Pashler, eds.). pp. 1—41. \Vilev, New York.
Tulving, E. (1983). Elements of Episodic Meonory. Clarendon, Oxford.
\Veldon, M. S., and Roediger, H. L. (1987). Altering retrieval demands reverses the picture superioritv effect. Mem. cognit. 15, 269-280.
Working memory and classroom learning
Susan E. Gathercole and Tracy P. Alloway
University of Durham
To appear in: Journal of Professional Association for Teachers of Students with
Specific Learning Difficulties 
Contact information:
Working Memory Research Group
Department of Psychology
University of Durham
Science Laboratories
South Road
Durham DH1 3LE
Email: s.e.gathercole@durham.ac.uk Tel: 0191 3343255 www.psychology.dur.ac.uk/research/wm/index.htm What is ‘working memory’?
The term ‘working memory’ refers to the ability to hold and manipulate information in the mind for a short period of time. It has often been described as a flexible mental workspace in which we can store important information in the course of complex mental activities. A good example of our use of working memory in everyday life is mental arithmetic. Consider, for example, attempting to multiply two two-digit numbers (e.g., 27 and 48) without using a paper and pencil, or a calculator. To do this successfully, it is necessary to store the two numbers, and then systematically apply multiplication rules, storing the intermediate products that are generated as we proceed through the stages of the calculation. It is only if we manage to meet both the storage and processing demands of the activity that the correct answer can be reached. Carrying out such mental activities is a process that is effortful and error-prone. A minor distraction such as an unrelated thought springing to mind or an interruption by someone else is likely to result in complete loss of the stored information, and so in a failed calculation attempt. As no amount of effort will allow us to remember again the lost information, the only course of action is to start the calculation afresh. Our abilities to carry out such calculations are limited by the amount of information we have to store and process. Multiplying larger numbers (e.g., 142 and 891) “in our heads” is for most of us out of the question, even though it does not require greater mathematical knowledge than the earlier example. The reason we cannot do this is that the storage demands of the activity exceed the capacity of working memory.
This example illustrates some important features of working memory. First, it is an extremely useful and flexible system that we use in everyday life. Second, working memory requires attention and is prone to catastrophic loss if attention is shifted away from its contents, for example when we are distracted by an interruption. As information cannot be recovered once it has been lost, it is an extremely fragile system. Third, working memory capacities are limited. Capacities vary across individual, but for any person there is a limit to what can be held in this mental workspace; if this limit is exceeded, information is lost. Finally, we have conscious access to the contents of working memory: we know what we have successfully stored, and we know when information has been lost. Our subjective experience of using working memory is of effortful mental juggling, trying to keep all of the crucial information in mind at once.
Working memory in childhood
There is substantial evidence that working memory plays an important role in learning, especially during the childhood years. Relevant studies have typically investigated the relation between children’s working memory capacity and their learning achievements in areas such as literacy, language, and mathematics. Working memory capacity is usually measured by complex memory span tasks in which the child has to both store and process information simultaneously. An example of such a task is listening recall. In this task, the child has to listen to a series of sentences, to decide whether each sentence is true or false (e.g., rabbits have ears – “true”, bananas can fly – “false”), and then at the end of the block of sentences to recall the last word of each sentence in correct sequence (“ears, fly”). The number of sentences in each block is increased until the point at which the child can no longer accurately recall the final words. Performance is scored in terms of the number of trials correct, and a child with greater working memory capacity will obtain higher scores. Not all complex span tasks involve processing the meaning of sentences and remembering words. Another commonly used complex memory span task is counting recall, in which the child counts the number of dots in a series of arrays, and then attempts to recall the tally number in sequence.
Insert Figure 1 about here
Working memory capacity shows a steady developmental increase across the early and middle childhood years. This is demonstrated in Figure 1, which shows mean scores on the listening recall test of Working Memory Test Battery for Children (WMTB-C, Pickering & Gathercole, 2001) for children aged 5 to 15 years in the standardisation sample. Performance improves from 5 years until the teenage years, when it starts levelling off. Adult levels of performance are typically reached by about 15 years. One important feature of working memory capacity during childhood is the extent to which it varies very widely across individuals of the same age. This is illustrated by the considerable distance between the two bars shown for each age in Figure 1, which mark the 10th and 90 centiles. At some ages, the distance between these bars is equivalent to four or five years’ variation in terms of age-appropriate performance. This amount of variation in working memory capacity would be expected between the three children with the highest and lowest working memory skills in an average class.
Working memory and Key Stage performance
Children’s working memory abilities are closely related to their performance in Key Stage assessments of the national curriculum. In an initial study, we assessed working memory skills in a sample of six- and seven-year old children who were about to complete Key Stage 1 assessments (Gathercole & Pickering, 2000). The children who subsequently failed to reach expected levels of attainment for their age – levels W or 1 – scored very poorly on working memory measures, and particularly on verbal complex memory span tests.
Insert Figure 2 about here
This association between working memory skills and Key Stage performance has been replicated and extended in a series of further studies.  Gathercole, Pickering, Stegmann & Wright (2004) found that working memory skills were excellent predictors of whether children would obtain low, average or above high scores on both English and maths assessments at Key Stage 1 (6/7 years) and maths assessments at Key Stage 3 (13/14 years).  Mean standard scores on working memory measures (100 is average for age, with a standard deviation of 15) are shown in
Figure 2 for three Key Stage 1 ability groups in English (low, average, and high). Scores under 100 reflect performance below the national average on the memory measures, and scores above 100 are above average. It can clearly be seen from the figure that children with low attainment levels on the English assessments typically had poor working memory scores, and that children with the highest attainment levels tended to have working memory skills that were considerably above the average for their age.
Close links between working memory and learning attainments were  also demonstrated in a longitudinal study in which working memory skills were measured shortly after school entry. Gathercole, Brown, & Pickering (2003) assessed working memory within two months of children commencing full-time education in reception class.  At the same time, the children were evaluated by their school using the local baseline assessment scheme on their emerging abilities in the areas of reading, language, speaking and listening, mathematics, and social skills. We were interested in comparing the extent to which the children’s levels of attainments at Key Stage 1 almost three school years later were predicted working memory scores. The results were intriguing. Both working memory and baseline assessments scores predicted Key Stage 1 attainment levels in English. However, the two predictive paths from both working memory and baseline assessment scores at 4/5 years and later English attainment levels were independent of one another, as shown in the diagram of causal paths in Figure 3.
Insert Figure 3 about here
The different pathways leading to Key Stage 1 performance seem to reflect fundamental differences in the abilities being measured in the working memory assessments and the baseline assessment schemes, both of which make important contributions to later attainments. Baseline assessments largely measure knowledge that the child has already gained in the course of their experiences and learning achievements prior to school. Examples of typical test items on baseline scales are whether or not the child can write his or her own name, or recognize printed letters or digits. Children’s scores highly on such test items will reflect whether or not they have already acquired the relevant knowledge, and this is likely to be strongly influenced by their prior experiences both in the home and in pre-school education as well as their basic learning abilities.
Working memory assessments are quite different in nature. Children’s performance on these measures does not reflect what they have or have not learned prior to the tests, as the test materials are designed to be equally unfamiliar to all participants. No child will therefore benefit from knowledge acquired previously in performing these tests. Consistent with this, performance on working memory tests is independent of general background factors such as socio-economic status and preschool education (e.g., Alloway, Gathercole, Adams, & Willis, 2003). Baseline assessments, on contrast, are significantly associated with such factors. What constrains performance on working memory measures is working memory capacity. We suggest that the predictive pathway from working memory skills to curriculum attainments reflects the role of working memory in supporting learning, and provides a relatively pure indication of a child’s learning potential that is independent of more general environmental factors. The most effective way of identifying children at risk of low educational attainment is therefore likely to be assessments that combine children’s knowledge in key areas at school entry (such as Foundation Stage profiles) with purer tests of learning ability that are independent of prior experience, such as working memory measures.
Working memory and special educational needs
If poor working memory skills do limit a child’s capacity to learn complex skills and acquire new knowledge, individuals with extreme deficits of working memory should experience marked learning difficulties. We had the opportunity to test this possibility in the course of our standardisation of the Working Memory Test Battery for Children (Pickering & Gathercole, 2001). Approximately 750 children aged between 4 and 15 years participated in this study and of these, almost 100 children had special educational needs recognised by their schools. Once the test scores were standardised on the entire sample, we looked at the working memory profiles of the children with different kinds of special educational needs (Pickering & Gathercole, 2004). In the group with learning difficulties in both literacy and mathematics, low scores on both working memory and phonological loop tests were 31 times more common than in the remainder of the standardisation sample who had no special educational needs. In a small group of children whose learning difficulties were specific to language, this profile was 43 times more common than in the comparison sample. The degree of working memory impairment of these children with recognized learning difficulties was therefore very unusual in the general population. In contrast, children with recognized special educational needs of a non-cognitive origin (such as children with behavioural problems) had normal working memory skills.
A further important finding is that working memory skills tend to be most impaired in children whose learning difficulties are pervasive rather than specific in nature. Across two studies, we have found that the most severe deficits of working memory are found in children whose learning difficulties include both literacy and mathematics (Alloway, Gathercole, Adams, & Willis, 2004; Pickering & Gathercole, 2004). Individuals with problems specific to literacy, in contrast, have working memory skills that typically fall in the low normal range. The clear implication is that children with very poor working memory function experience difficulties in learning that are of a relatively general nature.
Working memory and Specific Language Impairment
Working memory deficits also appear to be a key feature of Specific Language Impairment (SLI). SLI is diagnosed in children whose language development falls significantly behind that expected on the basis of age, despite normal general cognitive function, sensory abilities, and other developmental experiences.
In a recent study, we investigated working memory abilities in children with SLI (Archibald & Gathercole, 2003). Deficits on verbal working memory tasks were present in our group of SLI children, and the majority also performed very poorly on measures of verbal short-term memory. These deficits were 50 times more common in this group of children in the general population. It should be noted that this finding of a close link between working memory deficits and language impairments is not in conflict with the claim above that poor memory function leads to general rather than specific deficits in learning: all of the SLI children in this sample showed impairments in mathematics and literacy as well as language.
Case studies
We have recently begun to explore in more detail the learning difficulties experienced in the classroom by children with very poor working memory skills. To do this, we observed three children in Year 1 who were selected on the basis of very low scores on working memory assessments administered early on in Reception class
(Gathercole, Lamont, & Alloway, in press).
At the time of the observations, Jay, Andrew and Nathan were working in the lowest ability groups in the class. All three children had good social skills, and were relatively popular with their peers and teacher. They were, however, reserved in group discussions. In each case their teachers viewed their main problems as relating to lack of attention and motivation (e.g., “He doesn’t listen to a word I say”), although the children showed no consistent evidence of attentional deficits using a diagnostic test based on teacher ratings of behaviour. Interestingly, the teachers did not identify memory as a problem for any of the children.
The children showed frequent task failures in four aspects of routine classroom activities that we consider to impose significant burdens on working memory. These areas of failure are summarised below.
Forgetting instructions
The most commonly observed memory-related failure in all three children was an inability to follow instructions from the teacher. The failure appeared to be due to forgetting the content of the instruction, particularly when it was fairly lengthy and did not represent a routine classroom activity. Here are three examples of this kind of failure.
On one occasion, the teacher gave the following instruction to Jay: “Put your sheets on the green table, put your arrow cards in the packet, put your pencil away and come and sit on the carpet”. Jay failed to put his sheet on the green table. Teacher asked Jay if he could remember where he was supposed to put it; he couldn’t, and needed reminding.
A second example involved Nathan. His teacher handed him his computer login cards and told to go and work on computer number 13. He failed to do this, because he had forgotten what computer he had been told to use.
Finally, Andrew was asked to go back and put an n in the word bean. He went back and asked the classroom assistant what he had been asked to do.
Considered individually, these failures to remember instructions may seem to have relatively trivial consequences. However, the children’s frequent forgetting of general instructions and specific task guidance was noted to impair both their individual successes in completing learning activities and the smooth running of the classroom.
Losing track in complex tasks
All three children experienced marked difficulties in writing a sentence either generated by the child himself or provided by the teacher. The task structure of writing a sentence accurately consists of a hierarchy involving three levels – letters, words, and the sentence. If the sentence is internally generated by the child or spoken by the teacher, its surface form needs to be maintained to guide the writing of the words and their individual letters, and the child has to keep track of the position in the sentence while writing. If the task involves copying a sentence the burden of sentence representation in working memory is reduced, but the child still needs to keep track of their position while writing.
Two types of failure were observed in writing. The first type of error involved the child forgetting either some or all of the sentence content. This was relatively easy to identify, as it was common practice for teachers to check with children in lower ability groups if they were able to repeat the sentence before beginning to write it. Jay,
Nathan and Andrew all demonstrated on occasion that they were unable to do this. The second type of error involved the child losing track of his position in the sentence. This resulted in omission of words, repetition of words (when the child forgot that the word has already been written), intrusion of words that were not in the target sentence, and (frequently) abandonment of the task.
Jay provided an example of both types of writing failure when he was working with his teacher and the rest of the low ability group. The teacher decided that the children should write He had 36 barrels of gunpowder. The sentence was repeated until the children appeared to remember it. Jay successfully wrote he and had, and then could not remember what to write next. The teacher asked him to read what he had already written and then to say what word came next, but he could not. The teacher reminded him of the sentence. Jay then got stuck after writing several letters of the word gunpowder, attempted and failed to get the teacher’s attention to help him, and then forgot that the word needed completing.
A further example of a place-keeping error was provided by Andrew. The teacher wrote on the board Monday 11th November and, underneath, The Market, which was the title of the piece of work. Andrew lost his place in the laborious attempt to copy the words down letter by letter, writing moNemarket. It appeared that he begun to write the date, forgot what he was doing and began writing the title instead.
Failing to cope with simultaneous processing and storage demands
Jay, Nathan and Andrew all frequently struggled in structured activities whose successful completion involved engaging in a relatively demanding processing activity at the same time as storage of information. Many of these activities involved counting. Although all three children were capable of counting accurately in the context of a simple task, many classroom activities combined counting with other cognitive processes. One frequent activity in literacy sessions involved counting the numbers of words in a sentence, often prior to writing the sentence down. Nathan was unable to recall the sentence, isolate each word and count it without assistance from the teacher. A group activity in Andrew’s class was to count the number of sentences in a text. Andrew was unable to keep track of the tally number while reading aloud the text. In both cases, the task failure appeared to result from combining the memory demands of counting (keeping track of the tally number) in the context of a concurrent and fairly demanding processing activity.
 There was frequent use in each classroom of number aids, designed to facilitate children’s grasp and mastery of counting and basic arithmetic. Examples include number lines, number fans, and Unifix blocks. In each case, the device provides a means of representing number physically. The children in the low working memory group struggled to take full advantage of the support potentially provided by these number aids. Number lines are designed to facilitate counting, by allowing the child to jump one step at a time from a starting number. Nathan was encouraged to use a number line when counting up the number of ducks shown on two cards, but struggled to coordinate the act of jumping along the line with counting up to the second number. He abandoned the attempt, solving the sum instead by counting up the total number of ducks on the two cards. Similarly, Andrew was observed to choose not to use the number line when available, but instead to count on his fingers. In both cases, the unfamiliar activity of counting along the points of the number line to a stored target number appeared to impose a greater working memory load than simple counting of the physical events.
Further failures were observed in activities that involved the detection of target items in spoken or written text. These tasks imposed significant processing demands (analysis and comprehension of spoken language, or text reading) in conjunction with the storage of multiple items. For example, the children in Nathan’s class were asked to identify the rhyming words in a text read aloud by the teacher. They had to wait until all four lines had been read before telling the teacher the two words that rhymed: tie, and fly.  This task involves matching the sound structures of a pair of words, and storing them. Nathan was unable to do this. A related activity in Jay’s class involved the teacher writing number sequences on the white board with some numbers missing.
She counted the number aloud, and asked the class what numbers she had missed out. In each case, there was more than one number missing (e.g., 0, 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8). Here, the child has to use their number knowledge to identify each missing number, and store them. Jay was unable to tell the teacher the numbers she had missed out on all occasions.
All of the tasks discussed here share the common feature of imposing significant processing demands on the child, combined with a storage load. In themselves, the storage loads do not appear to be particularly excessive. In the case of counting-based activities, the child simply has to retain the tally number and sometimes the target number to which he must count, and in the examples of the detection tasks supplied above the child had only to store two items in each case. In isolation, it seems likely the child would be able to meet these storage requirements without difficulty. The task failures appear to arise from the combining storage with the significant processing demands of the task.
Longer-term forgetting
Memory failures that extended beyond the duration of working memory were observed on a number of occasions, with all three children failing on several occasions to remember information that they had encountered in an earlier activity in the day. This raises the possibility that poor working memory skills may limit the flow of information through to longer-term memory systems, leading to poor functioning in several memory systems.
Two examples illustrate this point. Jay’s teacher discussed bonfire night and read the story of Guy Fawkes to the class. When Jay was asked “What might you see in the sky tomorrow night?” he failed to answer fireworks. He was also unable to say what
Guy Fawkes planned to do, even after writing the sentence in answer to the question. Similarly, in a class activity involving the teacher and class together reading from a big book, Nathan was unable to answer any questions asked about the text.
Implications for classroom practice
We suggest that these frequent failures of low memory children to meet the working memory demands of classroom activities may be at least one cause of the poor academic progress that they typically make. In order to reach expected attainment targets, the child has to succeed in many different structured learning activities designed to build up gradually across time the body of knowledge and skills that they need in areas of the curriculum such as literacy and mathematics. If the children frequently fail in individual learning situations simply because they cannot store and manipulate information in working memory, their progress is acquiring complex knowledge and skills in areas such as literacy and mathematics will be slow and difficult.
As yet, no ways of improving working memory skills have been identified. However, we suggest that the learning progress of children with poor working memory skills can be improved dramatically by reducing working memory demands in the classroom.  Here we consider a number of ways in which this can be achieved in school, summarised in Table 1.
Table 1 about here
First, it is important to ensure that the child can remember what he or she is doing. On many occasions, we observed children with low working memory simply forgetting what they had to do next, leading to failure to complete many learning activities. Children’s memory for instructions will be improved by using the instructions that are as brief and simple as possible. Instructions should be broken down into individual steps where possible. One effective strategy for improving the child’s memory for the task is frequent repetition of instructions. For tasks that take place over an extended period of time, reminding the child of crucial information for that particular phase of the task rather than repetition of the original instruction is likely to be most useful. Finally, one of the best ways to ensure that the child has not forgotten crucial information is to ask them to repeat it back. Our observations indicate that the children themselves have good insight into their working memory failures.
Second, in activities that involve the child in both processing and storage information, working memory demands and hence task failures will be reduced if the processing demands are decreased. For example, sentence writing was a source of particular difficulty for all of the children with low working memory that we observed. Sentence processing difficulty can be lessened by reducing the linguistic complexity of the sentence. This can be achieved in a variety of ways, such as simplifying the vocabulary, and using common rather than more unusual words. In addition, the syntax of the sentence can be simplified, by encouraging the child to use simple structures such as active subject-verb-object constructions rather than sentences with a complex clausal structure. The sentences can also be reduced in length. A child with poor working memory skills working with short sentences, relatively unfamiliar words and easy syntactic forms are much more likely to hold in working memory the sentence form and to succeed in a reasonable attempt at writing the sentence.
Third, the problem of the child losing his or her place in a complex activity can be reduced by breaking down the tasks into separate steps, and by providing memory support. External memory aids such as useful spellings displayed on the teacher’s board or the classroom walls and number lines are widely used in classrooms. In our observational study, however, we found that children with poor working memory function often chose not to use such devices, but gravitated instead towards lowerlevel strategies with lower processing requirements reduced general efficient example. In order to encourage children’s use of memory aids, it may be necessary to give the child regular periods of practice in the use of the aids in the context of simple activities with few working memory demands.
Difficulties in keeping place in complex task structure may also be eased by increasing access to useful spellings will also help prevent them losing their place in writing activities. Reducing the processing load and opportunity for error in spelling individual words will increase the child’s success in completing the sentence as a whole. However, reading off information from spellings on key words on the teachers’ board was itself observed to be a source of error in low memory children in our study, with children commonly losing their place within the word. Making available spellings of key words on the child’s own desk rather than a distant class board may reduce these errors by making the task of locating key information easier and reducing opportunities for distraction. It may also be beneficial to develop ways of marking the child’s place in word spellings as a means of reducing place-keeping errors during copying.
A final recommendation for improving the learning successes of individuals with poor working memory skills is to develop in the children effective strategies for coping with situations in which they experience working memory failures. Strategies may include encouraging the child to ask for forgotten information where necessary, training in the use of memory aids, and encouragement to continue with complex tasks rather than abandoning them even if some of the steps are not completed due to memory failure. Arming the child with such self-help strategies will promote their development as independent learners able to identify and support their own learning needs.
Current research
Following the principles outlined above, we are now working on a programme designed to identify and provide learning support in the classroom for children with working memory deficits. In this programme, children will be screened for working memory impairments using the Automated Working Memory Assessment battery (AWMA). The AWMA is a computerised assessment package that requires minimal training prior to administration, and is designed for classroom use. It is suitable for children aged 4 to 11 years of age. A learning support programme will be offered to children who are identified as having poor working memory skills. The programme will provide guidance for classroom and special needs teachers on ways of reducing excessive working memory loads in classroom activities, and on developing children’s own strategies for coping with memory failures.
We are currently seeking collaborations on this project with education professionals working with children, such as special needs and classroom teachers, and educational psychologists. Anyone interested in learning more about this study, and possible participation in it, should contact Tracy Alloway or Susan Gathercole either by email (t.p.alloway@durham.ac.uk or s.e.gathercole@durham.ac.uk) or at the Department of Psychology, University of Durham, Science Laboratories, South Road, Durham DH1 3LE. Further information about our research is available at www.psychology.dur.ac.uk/research/wm/index.htm. 
Acknowledgments
This research was supported by the Medical Research Council. 
References
Alloway, T.P., Gathercole, S.E., Adams, A.M., & Willis, C. (2003). Working memory and other cognitive skills as predictors of progress towards early learning goals at school entry. Manuscript under review.
Alloway, T.P., Gathercole, S.E., Adams, A.M., & Willis, C. (2004).  Working memory and phonological awareness in children with reading and mathematical difficulties. Manuscript submitted for publication
Archibald, L.M.D., & Gathercole, S.E. (2003). Working memory in children with
Specific Language Impairment. Manuscript undergoing revision.
Gathercole, S.E., Brown, L., & Pickering, S.J. (2003). Working memory assessments at school entry as longitudinal predictors of National Curriculum attainment levels. Educational and Child Psychology, 20, 109-122.
Gathercole, S. E, Lamont, E., & Alloway, T.P. (in press). Working memory in the classroom. In S.Pickering (Ed.). Working memory and education. Elsevier Press.
Gathercole, S.E., & Pickering, S.J. (2000). Working memory deficits in children with low achievements in the national curriculum at seven years of age. British Journal of Educational Psychology, 70, 177-194.
Gathercole, S. E., Pickering, S. J., Knight, C., & Stegmann, Z. (2004). Working memory skills and educational attainment: Evidence from National Curriculum assessments at 7 and 14 years of age. Applied Cognitive Psychology, 18, 1-16.
Pickering, S.J., & Gathercole, S.E. (2001). Working Memory Test Battery for
Children. Psychological Corporation UK.
Pickering, S.J., & Gathercole, S.E. (2004). Distinctive working memory profiles in children with special educational needs. Educational Psychology.
Figure legends
Figure 1: 	Mean scores, with bars showing 10th and 90th centile points, on listening recall task from the Working Memory Test Battery for
Children, as a function of age
Figure 2: 	Mean complex memory span scores for low, average and high ability groups on English and mathematics assessments at Key Stage 2, from
Gathercole et al. 2004.
Figure 3: 	Links between working memory and baseline assessment scores and
subsequent attainments in Key Stage 1 English assessments, from
Gathercole et al 2003. 
Table 1
Working memory demands in classroom activities: Some problems and
solutions
Problem	Solutions
Child forgets the task	•	Give brief and simple instructions, broken down into separate steps if task is very complex.
•	Check the child can remember the instructions. Repeat instructions if necessary
Child cannot meet combined processing and storage demands of activities	• For activities involving sentences, reduce sentence length, reduce syntactic complexity (simple active sentence forms are the easiest), and/ or increase familiarity of the vocabulary
Child loses place in a complex task	•	Use external memory aids such as number lines and useful spellings.
•	Ensure that the child has plenty of prior practice in the use of the aids prior to using them in more complex task settings.
•	Find ways of marking for the child their progress in a complex task structure
 
 
Working memory is the conscious part of our memory, where we hold information in order to do something with it. Working memory plays a crucial role in learning because the way we engage with information in our working memory influences how well this memory will be stored in long-term memory, and therefore how effectively it can be retrieved and used. However, working memory is limited, and its limitations can often present challenges for students. For neurodivergent students, the limitations of working memory may be even greater than for their neurotypical peers. This means that, while accommodating the constraints of working memory is important for all students, it is particularly pertinent when teaching neurodivergent students. 
The role of working memory in learning
Working memory is the place where thinking takes place. It is where information is manipulated and prior knowledge is drawn upon to add to new knowledge. Like a short-term parking place for information, the working memory is needed to ‘park’ information, both new and existing, in order to work with it. What is more, it is essential that new knowledge is processed in working memory in order for it to be transferred to long-term memory. This means that the role of working memory in learning new material is vital. You can read more about working memory here.
The limitations of working memory mean it only has a certain amount of capacity to hold new information (although its capacity to hold and work with existing knowledge drawn from long-term memory is not limited in the same way).  When the working memory is overloaded, this leads to information loss – either incoming information will not be processed, or an item ‘in process’ will be dropped to make space for the new information. Cognitive load theory explains the way that new knowledge is built in working memory. In order to facilitate learning and the effective transfer of knowledge to long-term memory, it is important to reduce cognitive load in appropriate ways. 
How working memory constraints can affect neurodivergent students
As described above, a student’s working memory capacity is a crucial part of their ability to effectively learn new information and use previously learned information. Working memory has a limited capacity, and for neurodivergent students, this already limited capacity is likely to be even further reduced, and learning challenges exacerbated. An example might be learning spelling patterns. If a student’s capacity to ‘hold’ new patterns in their working memory is limited, they may only learn two or three, while peers may hold five or six, thus allowing them to make greater progress in their understanding of spelling. If this example is then extended to writing, it may be that the student with a reduced working memory cannot apply the spelling pattern to writing a new word because they have already ‘lost’ the pattern. 
Here are some of the factors that may place additional limits on a neurodivergent student’s working memory:
•	Sensory overload: this is often experienced by neurodivergent students, particularly those who are 	autistic and/or have ADHD.
•	Slower processing speed: students may need more time than their peers to process verbal and/or 	written information.
•	Increased cognitive load: other things may be taking up space in the student’s brain, such as 	uncertainty about what is coming up next (this can be particularly challenging for autistic students, and is related to cognitive flexibility), tension with a peer in the class, or a change in the usual routine, such as the presence of a relief teacher in place of the regular classroom teacher. 
•	Emotional dysregulation: a student’s ability to regulate their emotions may be limited (for example, students with ADHD may struggle more than their peers to regulate their emotions). They may also experience increased anxiety when learning or trying to learn.
Working memory sits under the umbrella term of executive functioning, alongside cognitive flexibility and inhibitory control. Many neurodivergent students experience challenges with their executive functioning skills, which are critical for effective learning as they include planning, focusing, moving from one task to another, and controlling impulses and emotional regulation. Neurodivergent students may experience additional challenges related to executive functioning. For example, autistic students can find flexibility in the classroom challenging - this includes things like shifting from one task to another, or working with others. Students with ADHD may struggle to inhibit their behaviour, and may shout out answers, move around the room, and interact inappropriately with peers (and it is important to note that many students with ADHD do not have control over this behaviour). They may also find maintaining focus and attention difÏcult, and struggle to stay on task (in some cases their attention span may only be a couple of minutes). Abstract thought can be challenging for autistic and ADHD students – they may find understanding the ‘why’ of the learning difÏcult, and starting a task without knowing the purpose of the task may lead to a refusal to engage in it.
What teachers might notice
There are many classroom behaviours that may initially appear to be due to laziness or lack of effort, but are actually the result of working memory limitations. These include:
•	DifÏculty remembering and following a set of instructions	
•	DifÏculty prioritising one task over another	
•	Distractedness or difÏculty staying on task	
•	Apparent inattentiveness	
•	DifÏculty with tasks such as mental mathematics. 	
Working memory is also essential for social cognition, or the ability to notice and interpret the social behaviours of others, so limited working memory capacity may also impact neurodivergent students’ ability to interact with other students. For example, the process of labelling the emotions communicated through facial expressions can place high demands on working memory resources, so students may find working in groups or other activities that rely on social interactions challenging. Students may also be reluctant to ask for help, both from their peers and from a teacher or teacher aide.
Strategies to support working memory for neurodivergent students
It is important that teaching and learning take into account the limited working memory capacity of all students. Approaches that help to reduce cognitive load include structured, explicit approaches to teaching new content that include reviewing previously learned content, explicitly teaching new content, asking lots of questions to check students’ understanding, having students practise new content until they reach high levels of mastery, and regularly reviewing content that has been learned using evidencebased practices such as retrieval and spacing.
As neurodivergent students are likely to have even less working memory capacity than their neurotypical peers, below are some additional strategies that teachers can use to provide necessary support.
Planning: when planning a unit of work, consider adopting an inclusive design approach (such as Universal Design for Learning). It is also helpful to:
•	Ask students what they think will help them, as they can be an invaluable source of insight into what 	will support them to learn. For example, the student may already have developed some effective strategies, such as breaking tasks down into even smaller units, or using a mini-whiteboard on their desk to note down the teacher’s instructions for completing a task. 
•	Try and make the learning relevant to the individual student, perhaps by using their special interests 	as the foundation for new learning. For example, giving the student opportunities to draw on existing knowledge that is well-established in long-term memory to support new learning may help to reduce cognitive load.
•	Consider ways to draw on the student’s strengths. For example, if they enjoy drawing, allow them to 	provide a visual representation of the information they are learning, which may help to reduce the additional cognitive load that can be caused by handwriting.
More information on creating an inclusive classroom can be found here.
Teaching and learning: it is important to support students to process new information deeply in order to ensure transfer to long-term memory. Remember that learning is a process and each stage of the process (knowing, understanding, using, and mastering) has to be achieved in order for successful learning to happen. Useful strategies include:
•	Offering multi-modal opportunities by presenting the information in a variety of ways, such as 	adding a visual representation to accompany the written information. Visual cues can often effectively increase a student’s ability to understand something and ensure it sticks.
•	Providing additional time where needed to allow students to process new learning.	
•	Providing a range of opportunities for students to use and practise the knowledge, such as 	having them create a quiz for their peers, or giving them multiple practice problems of gradually increasing difÏculty.
•	Ensuring students are given multiple opportunities to retrieve and re-visit information frequently and 	in different ways, such as written tests, informal question and answer sessions with the whole class, and short homework tasks.
•	Considering whether peer support might enable a student to understand information in a way that 	makes sense to them.
•	Utilising the home-school partnership by letting families and whānau know what you are currently 	learning, and suggesting ways that the learning can be reviewed or consolidated at home. This can be particularly important if the student is reluctant to ask for help at school.
 Reducing cognitive load: There are simple steps that can be taken to reduce a student’s cognitive load which may free up additional working memory space, such as:
•	Not asking students to do two things at once, like listening to the teacher talking while copying 	things down from the whiteboard.
•	Ensuring that new knowledge is presented in a way that takes into account students’ prior 	knowledge.
•	Summarising written information for the student, rather than expecting them to be able to do this.	
•	Avoiding the inclusion of unnecessary information alongside key information, such as adding 	a funny cartoon that does not contribute directly to students’ understanding of the concept or content.
•	Using post-it notes to quickly and simply re-direct a student’s attention, or explain or suggest 	something to them.
•	Using a mini-whiteboard for following up with individual students by, for example, revisiting key 	concepts and providing additional concrete examples.
•	Having meaningful check-ins with the students using open questions, for example: Can you explain 	what you are focusing on? Can you repeat for me what you have been asked to do? This will ensure that the student understands what is required.
•	Implementing a clear communication system so that students can ask for help discreetly and 	effectively, and teachers can discreetly check in with students.
•	Reducing sensory overload: some students may benefit from sitting in a quieter part of the 	classroom, using noise-cancelling headphones, or having information printed out on different coloured paper.
 
References
Barendse, E.M., Hendriks, M.P., Jansen, J.F., et al. (2013). Working memory deficits in high-functioning adolescents with autism spectrum disorders: Neuropsychological and neuroimaging correlates. Journal of Neurodevelopmental 
Disorders, 5(14) https://doi.org/10.1186/1866-1955-5-14
Hernández Finch, M. E., Trammell, B., Hulse, A. R., Finch, W. H., Wildrick, A., Floyd, E. F., Pittenger, J., & McIntosh, D. E. (2022). Relationship of executive functioning and memory to autism symptomology and adaptive functioning: 
Implications for reducing future underemployment. Psychology in the 
Schools, 60(2), 282-294. https://doi.org/10.1002/pits.22755
Rabiee, A., Vasaghi-Gharamaleki, B., Samadi, S. A., AmiriShavaki, Y., AlaghbandRad, J. (2020). Working memory deficits and its relationship to Autism Spectrum Disorders. Iranian Journal of Medical Sciences, 45(2), 100-109. doi: 10.30476/ IJMS.2019.45315. 
PREPARED FOR THE EDUCATION HUB BY
Cath Dyson
Cath Dyson is an RTLB (Resource Teacher of Learning and Behaviour) in Whakatū (Nelson). She is also an Autistic Advisor for Altogether Autism and has a special interest in neurodiversity, trauma-informed practice, and inclusive education. 

