
New Study: Understanding the Impact of Minecraft in the Math Classroom
 
Minecraft: Education Edition’s 3D sandbox environment and block-based mechanics make it an ideal workspace for students to learn mathematical principles and test their ideas. Concepts like area and perimeter, patterns, ratios, and coordinates all come alive when they’re laid out spatially and can be manipulated with the click of the mouse. Learning with a game that students know and love also helps keep them engaged and energized.
We wanted to know more about the benefits of using Minecraft to teach math. In 2019, we partnered with the Queensland University of Technology’s Digital Media Research Centre in Australia to try and understand the impact that Minecraft: Education Edition can have for younger students as they learn mathematics. We were eager to examine the ways that the Minecraft environment builds engagement, especially in classrooms where the teachers are new to the game. After a three-month study, students showed remarkable progress in both their understanding of math and their confidence around the subject. We’d like to share the results and provide some inspiration for using Minecraft: Education Edition in your own math classroom!
How did the study work?
The researchers at Queensland University wanted to make sure that the study was representative of a broad cross-section of Australian schools, not just technologically advanced institutions in major urban centers. The schools were drawn from across the state of Queensland—urban and rural, central and remote, and from a wide geographical area. They gathered data from 307 students and 14 teachers from 6 schools across Queensland:
 
	Two schools in Brisbane, the state’s capital
	One school in Gold Coast City in the southeast
	Two schools in the inland region of Toowoomba
	A school in the rural Cairns region in the Far North
The researchers chose these schools to ensure a range of socio-economic statuses, along with wide cultural and geographical diversity. They were eager to involve teachers who had not previously used Minecraft either at home or in school. Although the focus was on teachers who were new to the game, a small number of the educators had extensive experience, including one Minecraft Global Mentor. In contrast, almost all the students had previously played Minecraft in some form.
Since this project’s focus was on novice Minecraft educators, the study aimed to try out suitably straightforward resources with the teachers in the six schools. It was essential to make the implementation of the learning activities as trouble-free as possible in order to focus on the mathematics learning experience, rather than technological issues or the complexities associated with more advanced Minecraft: Education Edition lessons. To make sure the activities were aligned to the Australian curriculum and accompanied by accessible support materials, the team chose the Algebra Architecture and Area and Volume lessons.
 
The Algebra Architecture lesson explores math models to learn about arithmetic patterns, and students use this knowledge to build architectural designs. Area and Volume encourages learners to create and solve problems involving spatial mathematics, a perfect challenge for Minecraft’s cubic environment and uniformly sized blocks!
Results from students and teachers
Across all the participating schools, the results were overwhelmingly positive, with plenty of thoughtful responses from both students and teachers. One school, located on the north side of Brisbane, serves students from preschool to the sixth grade. Two fourth grade classes took part in the study by accomplishing the Area and Volume lesson, with 50 students between them. Although one of the teachers had extensive experience with Minecraft: Education Edition, the other had only used the game three times so far.
 
The more experienced teacher shared that he’d mostly used Minecraft to illustrate concepts like scale, addition, multiplication, area, volume, and perimeter. The game’s greatest strength? In the educator’s own words, “Minecraft provides another kind of motivation and creative way to demonstrate knowledge.” He added, “Minecraft: Education Edition is best used to create, and I think that external activities play a large role. Minecraft: Education Edition should be used as a creative way to collaborate and communicate knowledge and understanding of ideas.”
The teacher who was new Minecraft immediately perceived the benefits since she saw how enthusiastic her students were to use this tool in class. When comparing the students’ attitudes toward general mathematics in class compared with learning in Minecraft, she observed a jump in enthusiasm. In her view, “Minecraft is a great way to synthesize understanding of maths concepts, engage all learners, and to provide open-ended activities to cater to all learning levels.” Perhaps most importantly, she expressed the belief that Minecraft caters to different types of learners, making it possible to scaffold for students who need more support.
 
And what about the students? Learners at the Brisbane school unanimously shared that they’d like to use Minecraft again for math learning. When asked whether they felt their understanding had grown after using the game, the team heard responses like “It just feels a bit easier on the computer,” and “It made maths really fun, and I’m really good at playing Minecraft on the computer.” Between the digital environment where the current generation of students is most comfortable and the visual nature of learning math in Minecraft, students’ experience was overwhelmingly positive.
We were especially interested to hear results from the school in Far North Queensland, over 1,000 miles north of the state’s capital. Rural schools often struggle with access to resources and technology, and students can experience significant disadvantages as a result. One grade 3/4 composite class took part in the study, and the teacher was a complete novice—she’d never played Minecraft before or used it for teaching at all! In spite of her inexperience, she saw the benefits right away and shared this insightful reflection.
Given my teaching experience, I’m very confident in the use of my usual maths resources, which are generally a combination of paper, digital, and hands-on. Minecraft is much more interactive and contains many more elements than any digital resources I’ve so far used, thus adding a higher level of difficulty and complexity. It also provides an avenue for greater inquiry and open-ended learning for students, which presents greater challenges in monitoring and management of lessons. The use of the slate, camera, and portfolio helps with this aspect considerably.
I was overwhelmed by the ease with which the students engaged with the activities. Given their general high level of skill with the game prior to the learning activity, they completed tasks and moved through the activity much more quickly than I expected, and with a much higher level of success. In the future, with greater time, I would like to see students develop more complex patterns and structures than those completed in this activity. One of the strengths of using this game is the opportunity it provides students to view maths in ‘real-world’ contexts and extend their learning.
While the open-ended environment might present challenges for classroom management for a novice educator, the in-game features aimed at teacher facilitation and student documentation, along with the sandbox environment’s support for spatial understanding, make Minecraft a powerful learning tool.
These are just a sample of the responses from the educators and students across the six schools. We encourage you to read the study in its entirety and dig more deeply into what learners and teachers had to say. You can access the research here.
What were the overall findings?
While the individual educator and student responses are valuable, it’s especially revealing to look at how the data all come together to tell a larger story. One of the most important measures of success was engagement with Minecraft as a teaching tool compared with other methods of delivering lessons. In this case, the vast majority of teachers agreed that when measured on a scale of 1 to 5, Minecraft: Education Edition provided greater engagement than other methods of teaching, with the bulk of the sample group rating this metric at 4 or 5.
 
It might seem obvious that students would prefer to house their math lessons in a game-based learning environment, especially in a platform as popular as Minecraft. But what about the value the game adds to learning? When asked about the overall value that Minecraft contributed on a scale of 1 to 5, teachers shared that all except a few students landed at 3 or above, with not a single rating of 1. That means every teacher found at least some added value for their math students, and a significant number of educators thought the benefits were substantial.
 
The learners themselves provided some key insights. There was an almost universal agreement that students enjoyed the experience of learning math with Minecraft: Education Edition and would love to use it again. A game-based learning environment has a way of sparking students’ interest!
Beyond enjoying the experience, students also displayed compelling evidence to demonstrate that the game enhanced their learning. When learners were initially asked about their math abilities on a scale of 1 to 5, a relatively even number of students split their answers between 3 and 5, with 4 as the most popular response.
 
They were then asked about their math abilities while using Minecraft, and the number of learners who considered themselves outstanding math students surged.
 
What does this result mean? There could be several interpretations. The data might demonstrate a stronger sense of confidence and ease with mathematics when it’s housed in a digital, game-based environment. Or it’s possible that mathematical information presented visually and spatially, manipulated through building, helps students feel more in control of the subject matter. Whatever the underlying meaning of these results, the outcome is the same: students feel more confident with math when they’re learning in Minecraft: Education Edition.
***
This post contains only a small selection of the research’s extensive results. We’d recommend taking a look at the whole study to hear more student and teacher testimonials, see more comprehensive data, and learn more about the experiment. Read and download the complete research here.
If you teach math and want to bring your subject alive in Minecraft’s game-based learning environment, we encourage you to check out our Math Subject Kit. It’s brimming with lessons, curriculum guides, and resources to support your teaching. If you’re new to Minecraft: Education Edition, take your first steps toward using this game-based learning tool for students—whether they’re learning at home or at school—at education.minecraft.net.

Using Minecraft as an educational tool for supporting collaboration as a 21st century skill
Author links open overlay panelRenate Andersen, Mikkel Rustad
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeo.2022.100094Get rights and content
Under a Creative Commons license
Open access
Highlights
	•
Using Minecraft as an educational tool in math classes facilitated collaborative learning processes.
	•
Using Minecraft in math classes enabled development of 21st century skills.
	•
We combine social network analysis (SNA) and interaction analysis (IA) as a research methodology for analyzing the use of Minecraft for learning subject-specific skills.
Abstract
Collaboration is an important 21st century skill, and there is an increasing interest in computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) in teaching and learning practices regarding the necessary knowledge and skills for 21st century learners. However, solutions are still lacking concerning how to enable learners to collaborate when working with a specific subject. This study developed and tested a learning design using Minecraft as an educational tool in math classes in higher education over a 2-year period. The research questions are: 1) How can Minecraft be used as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills, and what are the implications for the development of 21st century skills? 2) How can social network analysis (SNA) and interaction analysis (IA) be used as a research methodology for analyzing the use of Minecraft as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills? Data was analyzed using a mixed-methods approach, in which both a quantitative perspective through SNA and a qualitative perspective through IA were employed. Findings of the study: 1) suggested that using Minecraft for learning a subject-specific skill triggered collaborative learning processes, 2) facilitated the development of 21st century skills in math classes, and 3) combining SNA and IA as a research methodology for analyzing the use of Minecraft for learning subject-specific skills. These findings serve as a stepping stone for teachers and researchers to create learning designs that use a digital educational tool to facilitate collaborative learning and advance the literature on CSCL and educational practice.
	Previous article in issue
	Next article in issue
Keywords
21st Century skills
Collaborative learning
Improving classroom teaching
Teaching/learning strategies
1. Introduction
Education plays an essential role in preparing students for the future, and 21st century skills are a set of abilities critical for students to develop in order to succeed in the information age [1]. Although skills considered as 21st century skills and their definitions vary across different frameworks, collaboration, communication, information and communication technology literacy, creativity, critical thinking, and problem-solving are some of the most important skills [2]. According to several researchers, collaboration is a crucial 21st century skill that all students should have access to and learn before entering the labor market [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9]. Recent research suggestsed that 21st century skills—particularly for education and the workplace in the current economy—should entail an explicit focus on technological skills [8,10]. In line with this, van Laar et al. [8] raised the dilemma that although the literature on 21st century skills emphasized a broad spectrum of skills, only a few studies explicitly integrate digital aspects. However, several researchers emphasized that using educational technology to develop 21st century skills among students is an emerging area of research that needs further investigation [11], [12], [13]. This points to a need for more research exploring the use of educational tools for supporting the development of 21st century skills. This article aims to address this gap by adding to the current literature with a design-based intervention research study where Minecraft has been used as an educational tool for solving math tasks in an educational context within groups of students.
1.1. Computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) in education
The present study frames collaborative learning within the research field of CSCL as the study entails both collaborative and technological perspectives, in line with the argument outlined above. There is an increasing interest in teaching and learning practices regarding the role of CSCL in important skill development among students [9]. CSCL is a branch of learning sciences that focuses on how people collaborate using technological tools as mediating artifacts [14]. The widespread use of digital technology has created opportunities for social interactions, both distributed and co-located, and numerous applications have been designed to support collaborative learning. This led to the rise of the interdisciplinary research field of CSCL [15]. The central elements in CSCL are the premise that networked computers can bring learners together in new ways and that shared digital environments can foster interactions that develop learners’ new understanding in their areas of learning [14]. The central concept in CSCL is meaning-making, a collaborative construction of shared meaning in a joint activity where interactions are mediated by technological artifacts [14]. An emerging trend in the CSCL literature is investigating CSCL in the context of education, more precisely how teaching and learning can be supported using educational technology [16], [17], [18], [19], [20]. Limited research exists on how collaboration can be supported using technological tools. Therefore, to address this gap, the study focused on how a specific technological tool can be used in an educational context to facilitate collaborative learning.
1.2. Minecraft as an educational tool
This study explores how student teachers can work in small groups to solve math tasks using Minecraft1 as an educational tool. Minecraft is a commercial off-the-shelf block-based sandbox game, often compared to digital Lego, which involves constructing different buildings and figures. It is an open-world multiplayer game, suitable to encourage teamwork and non-linear gameplay [21]. It is among the most widely sold games of all time and is particularly popular among children and young adults. Here, we utilized Minecraft Education Edition, an alternative version of the game developed specifically for use in educational settings. This version offers features specially designed for educators, such as easy server setup, students’ ease of access, and teacher control with various options for facilitation. Teachers can control what goes on in the game and can make sure that the students are in the same community by, for example, setting up and turning off violence and various characters that can damage the game's avatars, turning off chat, or turning off the possibility that the game's characters may be damaged by falls, fire, and drowning. Minecraft is increasingly being used in educational contexts worldwide. Several studies have explored its use in educational contexts [22], [23], [24], [25], [26], [27]. Other studies have scrutinized how Minecraft can be used for students’ knowledge creation in maths [28], sciences [29], arts [30], languages [31], and social studies [32]. Previous studies have explored how Minecraft can support the development of spatial abilities in science, technology, engineering, and math education [33] or information literacy [34]. Nonetheless, further research regarding its implications for improving classroom teaching is warranted.
1.3. Studies of social network analysis in CSCL research
A growing body of research in the CSCL context uses social network analysis (SNA) to analyze social relationships. According to Dado and Bodemer [35], SNA is a promising research method for analyzing relational ties in CSCL activities where learners collaborate to achieve a common goal with the help of computers mediating the collaborative processes [35,36]. The concept of SNA has received increasing attention in recent years due to the appealing focus of SNA by visualizing relationships among entities and the patterns and implications of these relationships [37]. Some studies have used SNA to analyze data in an educational context [38], [39], [40]. Other studies have explored the use of SNA as part of a mixed-methods approach for analyzing participating networks during collaborative learning processes [32,41]. Furthermore, other studies have used SNA for analyzing data in a CSCL context [32], [42], [43], [44]. Roschelle et al. [45] suggested the need for more research regarding the use of CSCL tools in actual educational practice outside the context of research investigations. In this study, SNA was used to study the social interactions and collaborations among student teachers to solve math tasks using Minecraft.
1.4. Research questions and significance of study
A better understanding of how learners use Minecraft as an educational tool when working in groups to learn a subject-specific skill (math) can help us evaluate the impact of using educational tools as part of a learning design and the implications for developing 21st century skills. This may help us guide future efforts to enhance CSCL environments and interventions, enhance the use of educational tools in education, and enable learners to develop 21st century skills. The present study addresses the following research questions:
	1)
How can Minecraft be used as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills and what are the implications for the development of 21st century skills?
	2)
How can social network analysis (SNA) and interaction analysis (IA) be used as a research methodology for analyzing the use of Minecraft as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills?
The findings of this study can provide additional knowledge regarding the use of educational tools in education in general, thus enabling collaborations with a positive impact on the development of 21st century skills. The learning design developed and examined in this study can encourage teachers and researchers to use such educational tools as part of their teaching to support students to learn subject-specific skills and simultaneously enhance their collaboration skills and development of 21st century skills.
2. Methods
2.1. Research model and procedure
A series of classroom interventions were developed and tested in which students in their second year of teacher education were given math tasks to solve in groups using Minecraft. Overall, two interventions were tested over 2 years. Approximately 400 students divided into 10 classes participated in the interventions. The students participated in the project for 1 year (1 year represents 1 intervention). The data were derived from the second intervention of the project, i.e., five classes of student teachers. Each class consisted of approximately 40 students, and the class duration was 90 min. Based on the evaluation of and feedback from each intervention, the learning design and intervention were modified and refined. Our approach is in line with a design-based research process, an educational research tradition focused on the development of pedagogical practice and theory [46]. To ensure that the student teachers benefit from the learning design, competence goals from the Norwegian curriculum for elementary school students in mathematics when creating the math task were adopted. We designed the following specific learning goal for our intervention: build a three-dimensional figure in Minecraft and use geometry concepts, such as mirroring and the coordinate system, in practice.
The context of our classroom intervention was that we provided the student teachers (grouped in 2–4) with an empty virtual sculpture park in Minecraft and were tasked to build different pixel art figures in their assigned spot in the park. The students had to mirror the figure across a line of symmetry (reflection), re-creating the figure. When creating the Minecraft map, the center of the park was deliberately placed where the axes of the coordinate system intersect (origin). This enables Minecraft's built-in coordinate system to aid the students in task-solving. The pixel art figure was either chosen from a variety of example figures provided by the teachers or found by the students themselves (by using Google).
2.2. Research context and sample
The students were co-located on campus in the classroom. Each student created their own Minecraft avatar and joined a shared server with their group members and classmates. Approximately 40 students per class built their pixel art figures in the same park simultaneously. Two Minecraft servers containing the sculpture park were utilized per class, as each server in Minecraft Education Edition only allows for a maximum of 30 participants. The decision to provide shared servers for the class, instead of one server per group, was taken to encourage cross-group interaction.
The goal of the learning design was two-folded: support the development of pre-service teachers’ knowledge in mathematics and in teaching using digital educational tools. Mathematics, precisely geometry, was chosen as the context for the learning design and interventions due to the relevance of the competence goals in the national math curricula. At the time this study was conducted, the specific competence goal in the national math curricula for elementary school students was that students should learn how to mirror a figure and create 2D and 3D figures. While doing this, they should develop digital skills by exploring, visualizing, and using digital tools in problem-solving. In addition to focusing on subject-specific and digital skills, the Norwegian common core curricula highlighted the importance of several generic skills, including collaboration. We believe that these competence goals could be achieved using Minecraft, because the tool offers open-world building, learner control, and is characterized by the ability to create, explore, and collaborate [21]. Our learning design was meant to model how Minecraft might be used in elementary school settings to learn subject-specific skills, digital skills, and collaboration for the student teachers. As these were teacher students, they were expected to reflect on whether and how this experience would be useful in future learning situations with their own future students. Although the mentioned competence goals were aimed at elementary school students and with Minecraft being more popular among children than adults, tasks such as these also proved relevant for student teachers on the path to becoming elementary school teachers. This is because they need to know both subject-specific skills and engaging educational tools. Although the subject-specific task might appear basic for adult students, the task along with the fact that most students were unfamiliar with Minecraft as an educational tool proved to be an adequate challenge for the amount of course time allotted. In addition, the students themselves could regulate the task difficulty by choosing to construct more complex structures in the figure they chose to build. While the primary learning goal for these students was subject-specific tasks, mathematics was not the focus of this study. The role of the math subject in our study was that it provides a context for the learning design and the use of the educational tool. We utilized Minecraft as the primary learning environment and an educational tool in the math class.
Participant selection. The participants in the study are student teachers in their third semester of primary teacher education (a five-year master's degree). The students were explained the purpose of the study and that it was voluntary and they could withdraw from the study at any time. However, the class in which this study was conducted was mandatory for all third semester students. The group mainly consisted of students in their 20 s, and the majority of the students had little to no experience with Minecraft. The students organized themselves into groups of 2–4 students. There were no criteria for grouping; however, each member had to voluntarily provide informed, written consent to participate in the study.
2.3. Instruments used
2.3.1. Collecting data from group conversation
Data were collected using a screen recording software that recorded the in-game actions and conversations among the student teachers when using Minecraft to solve the math task. Virtual ethnography was used to collect the data—a method used for analyzing social interactions in online contexts and collecting data through social interactions—which reflects the participant's approach [47]. Using participant observation meant that we sometimes asked the student teachers to explain what they were doing. Overall, the data consisted of 18 h of screen recordings. This study included 6 h of recorded observation video collected from 11 students who were divided into 4 groups. To ensure data privacy, the research project was reported to and approved by the National Center for Data Services in Norway. All the students’ names were anonymized and were given fictitious ones. The screen recordings were transcribed before the analysis.
2.3.2. Social network analysis
Social network analysis (SNA) uses terminology and procedures from mathematical graph theory to study networks, where the basic entities are nodes and ties [48]. SNA is useful for analyzing relationships between different units of analysis (nodes and ties) in a network, where individuals are represented as nodes or groups and ties as relationships [48]. To perform SNA, we used Gephi and Discourse Network Analyzer (DNA). DNA is a software that transforms text-based conversational data into a formal network and prepares the data for SNA analysis [49]. DNA was used to thematically code all the social interactions from the student groups, creating thematic codes: building, removing and rebuilding, collaborating, discovering issues, math concept 1–mirroring, and math concept 2–coordinates. The names of the nodes are shown in Fig. 1. Hence, the data were categorized into different thematic groupings. As such, the different thematic codes contain different social interactions. The qualitative data were analyzed in collaboration; however, they were initially reviewed by both researchers individually based on the predefined themes, before later comparing notes and deciding upon which excerpts to use. The original list of themes contained more than 20 different entries, before the researchers jointly agreed to reduce the list to the themes applied in this study. This means that we thematically coded all the transcribed video data before exporting it to Excel sheets and into Gephi for SNA analysis. SNA provides a set of techniques and operations for analyzing the relational aspects of social structures [50]. Networks are composed of nodes and ties, wherein nodes are a set of objects representing entities in the dataset, and ties are the connections between the nodes and provide visual cues as to the degree of connectedness of the graph [51]. In SNA, ties refer to the relation between the participants and their activities. However, the word “edge” is also sometimes used to describe the same phenomenon.
 
	Download: Download high-res image (672KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Sociograms of the interaction patterns in the student teacher groups while solving a math task in Minecraft. Student teachers are represented with green nodes and the activities in which they participated are visualized with yellow nodes. The size of the node reflects the weighted degree centrality, meaning larger size of the nodes reflects higher weighted degree of activity. A thicker tie means a higher weighted degree. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article).
To conduct SNA, we computed the weighted degree centrality and created sociograms using Gephi, an SNA tool. Gephi is an open-source software for network visualization and analysis that helps data analysts intuitively reveal patterns and trends [52]. Using Gephi, we calculated the participants’ weighted degree centrality and the activities they participated in. Weighted degree centrality is a term used to analyze the most active and influential actors. Participants with more ties to other actors may be in advantaged positions because they have alternative ways to satisfy needs and are therefore less dependent on other individuals; with more ties, they gain access to more network resources overall [53]. Fig. 1 shows the results of the SNA analysis presented as sociograms representing persons and activities as nodes (in a two-mode network) in a visual display. Gephi was used to create sociograms (Fig. 1). A sociogram is a graphic display consisting of points (or nodes) representing actors and lines (or edges) to indicate ties or relations [53].
2.4. Data analysis
2.4.1. A mixed-methods approach
The application of CSCL techniques to authentic learning scenarios demands new theoretical and practical tools to analyze and assess learning processes [41]. We used a mixed-methods approach to capture the complex phenomena and emerging processes in the use of Minecraft in math classes. This approach flexibly applies diverse methods to embrace the multiple perspectives that behavioral, social, and professional complexities demand [54]. Furthermore, Bazeley [54] underlined that when using this approach, researchers ask complex questions and engage with real-world environments in a socially responsible and responsive way.
We used a two-step approach to analyze the data by combining social network analysis (SNA) and interaction analysis (IA). This mixed-methods approach was selected to increase reliability and obtain a richer perspective on the data by focusing on two different perspectives within the same dataset: 1) SNA provides a macro overview of the data, and 2) IA provides a detailed micro perspective. SNA is used for analyzing social structures in networks using graph theory to calculate various algorithms and examine the social relationships in the data [48]. Using SNA to analyze the network data and interaction patterns contributes information regarding the participants’ relationships that go beyond a purely qualitative perspective. It is an effective method for analyzing social relationships in a network, where it conceptualizes individuals or groups as nodes and their relationships as ties, exploring these relationships mathematically or visually as patterns [50]. However, SNA does not provide information regarding the content of student teachers’ conversations; therefore, another method is needed to accomplish this. For analyzing the social interactions, we needed a method that could capture the content of the collaborative processes. Therefore, we chose to use IA of the videorecorded data to go into detail about the content in the social interactions and analyze these processes. We used IA to assess the details of the content in the group conversations among the student teachers. IA is an empirical study of social interactions between humans and the objects in their environments, allowing for the exploration of talk, nonverbal communication, and artifact mediation [55].
2.4.2. Analytical framework
Using concepts derived from the literature presented in Section 1, we created an analytical framework used for analyzing the empirical data (see Section 3, Results, below). The analytical framework draws on concepts from the research fields of CSCL and SNA. Combining these concepts enabled a richer analysis of the dataset, including both macro (SNA) and micro (IA) perspectives of the data. Table 1 shows the analytical concepts comprising our framework.
Table 1. Analytic concepts used as part of the analytical framework.
CSCL concepts [19,14]
SNA concepts [58]
Breakdown	Weighted degree centrality
Negotiation	Sociogram
Meaning-making	
To analyze the collaboration aspects of the social interactions in the different student teachers’ groups, we adopted three concepts from the research field of CSCL: breakdown, negotiation, and meaning-making. According to Stahl [19], breakdown is when a group encounters a situation where they do not know what to do. A breakdown is usually the driving force in collaborative small-group interaction, because when it becomes apparent to participants that they do not know what to do, someone makes a proposal for action. This is followed by a negotiation process, when group members question, refine, or amend the original proposal through a secondary proposal [14]. Meaning-making refers to collaborative learning processes where participants align individual interpretations to a gradually shared meaning that is itself co-constructed in the processes [14]. According to Stahl et al. [14], meaning-making, or group cognition, refers to the processes through which participants interact in collaborative settings and the gradual establishment of the group discourse that emerges.
To analyze the social networks from an SNA perspective, we applied the concept of weighted degree centrality, which is a degree centrality measure, but a variant, in which the weight of the nodes is also considered [56]. In weighted degree centrality, also known as weighted network, ties are not only present or absent but have some form of weight attached to them [57]. This means that to understand the notion of weighted degree, the notion of degree centrality needs to be understood because weighted degree builds on the notion of degree centrality. Degree centrality is the number of ties connected to a node and is a centrality measure focused on analyzing the nodes’ relationships to each other [48,58]. To visualize the weighted degree centrality calculated for the networks, we created a sociogram. A sociogram or graph diagram [48] aims to represent and visualize each row and column in an incidence matrix.
3. Results
In this section, we present and analyze our data. First, we present SNA of the network data as an overview of the dataset of the sociograms of the group interactions. Second, our main findings are presented as a combination of SNA and interaction data. The interaction data is presented as a set of excerpts, numbered 1–4 and derived from screen recordings of the student teachers group work, providing a more detailed analysis.
3.1. Social network analysis of the data
The sociogram presented in Fig. 1 was created based on a two-mode network with two types of sets of actors: student teachers and the activities they participate in, in our case. A two-mode network, or dual-mode network in SNA analysis, consists of two different sets of data [58]. Fig. 1 presents a two-mode network where the student teachers represent one dataset and the activities they participated in represent another dataset. The relationships between the nodes are ties between the students and the activities they participated (building, removing and rebuilding, collaborating, discovering issues, math concept 1–mirroring, and math concept 2–coordinates). This means that in our two-mode network, there were no ties directly between the student teachers or their activities, but only connected the students and the activities in which they participated.
Networks may be directed or undirected. In a directed graph, the ties are arrows (i.e., they have direction). In undirected networks, ties/nodes are unordered pairs [58]. As seen in Fig. 1 (sociogram), the ties in the network have arrows, giving them direction. Directed networks are used to represent relational phenomena that logically have a sense of direction, for example, “gives advice to” [58]. The relational phenomena in our networks included “interacts with.” In the networks presented in Fig. 1, the ties represent interactions between the participants and the activities they participate in. The size of the ties reflects the weighted degree centrality. A thicker tie indicates a higher weighted degree centrality. The directions of the arrows provide information about the activities the students participate in. Below, four sociograms representing four different student teachers’ groups and their interaction patterns while working on solving the math task are presented.
Fig. 1 represents the four different sociograms of the different student groups. The name of the sociogram is a cue for hinting at the type of pixel art figure the groups build in Minecraft. A node with a high weighted degree centrality indicates a lot of activity connected to that node. The sociograms in Fig. 1 symbolize student teachers, and the activities they participated in are shown as circle-shaped nodes. The nodes reflect the two-mode network: 1) the students (Students 1–9); and 2) the activities they participated in (building, removing, rebuilding, collaborating, discovering issues, math concept 1–mirroring, and math concept 2–coordinates). The size and color of the nodes indicate the weighted degree centrality, which in this case means the number of times a student teacher engaged in one of the activities represented. The data obtained from Fig. 1 helped us address our research questions and inform our IA by identifying the most central activities (yellow nodes) and the most active student teachers (green nodes).
3.1.1. Analyzing and comparing the sociograms
The rationale for presenting the sociograms of the four different student groups is that we wanted to compare the interaction patterns between groups. When comparing the four sociograms (Fig. 1), the largest nodes with the highest weighted degree centrality can be interpreted as the “collaboration” activity nodes. This means that among the different activities connected to using Minecraft for solving math tasks, “collaboration” is the most central activity, with the highest weighted degree of centrality measure of all four sociograms (see Table 2). In Tables 2 and 3, we applied a node weighted degree centrality in which the weights of the nodes are considered and the definition of degree centrality is slightly modified to accommodate the node weights [56]. This means that weighted degree is a degree centrality measure not normalized to percent, as the data is more meaningful and true to present the SNA data as it was originally derived from Gephi, where it was calculated when the weighted degree centrality was computed.
Table 2. Weighted degree centrality of node “collaboration”.
Name of figure	Weighted degree centrality
Cola	69
Watermelon	60
Pikachu	179
LiloStitch	49
Table 3. Weighted degree centrality of node “math concept 1–mirroring”.
Name of figure	Weighted degree centrality
Cola	12
Watermelon	12
Pikachu	6
LiloStitch	13
When analyzing the sociograms, we noticed that the “collaboration” nodes were situated near the center of the network in all four sociograms, indicating that this activity was a central element in the student teachers’ groups while they were solving the math tasks. Determining how the node was situated in connection to the other nodes also indicated the weighted degree centrality (center position indicates a high weighted degree centrality and periphery indicates a low weighted degree). Some nodes sit at the periphery of their networks, whereas others are firmly at the center, reflecting their position in the network [59]. Collaboration is an interaction pattern that comes across as a shared trait in all sociograms, while the node “remove action” is at the periphery of all sociograms, reflecting that this activity was not a central part of the students’ activities. Another interaction pattern shared in the four sociograms was node “Math concept 1” (mirroring), which stands firmly at the center of the networks (see Table 3).
In summary, two interaction patterns emerged from the data from an SNA perspective: 1) collaboration is a central activity, and 2) mirroring is a central activity.
3.2. Analyzing the qualitative data
In the previous section, we used SNA to identify interaction patterns, revealing that the “collaboration” and “math concept 1–mirroring” nodes were the two central activities in the groups. The labels of the nodes emerged as intermediate terms while screening and classifying the data. Therefore, we present empirical data focusing on the thematic concepts of “collaboration” and “math concept 1–mirroring.” Four empirical data extracts were presented—one from each sociogram presented in Fig. 1. Two data extracts focused on the mirroring process of the figures, and two focused on collaboration aspects. We used a qualitative perspective to analyze the dataset using IA [55] to bring the meaning of collaboration processes in the student groups to the foreground.
3.2.1. Extract 1: planning the mirroring of the watermelon figure
Contextualizing the extract. The extract was derived from a screen recording of two students building and mirroring the Watermelon figure in Minecraft (Fig. 2). The interaction occurred at around the 3 min mark in the group work, at the beginning of the process of building the figure. The extract focused on how the students discuss and plan on mirroring the figure.
Turn	Participant	Empirical data	Analytic concept
1	Olivia	“Have you found out how far away?” … “Hi? Do you make it that way?”	Breakdown
2	Sophia	“Yes, we'll make it that way upwards. We have to make it stand.”	
3	Olivia	“Yes, so it must be … .”	
4	Sophia	“And those are the bottom ones.”	
5	Olivia	“But you must not make it over [across] like that. We are going to mirror it. It must be across the road there.” [Points out that Sophia has made the foundation wall along the road and believes it should be turned so that it can be mirrored across the road—otherwise there will only be two identical figures]	Negotiation, mirroring (weighted degree centrality 12)
6	Sophia	“Oh yes, I thought the left was mirrored. Because if that's the way it is here, then it will be in a way … . Yes, maybe … .” [Realizes that Olivia is right]	Mirroring (weighted degree centrality 12)
7	Olivia	“I thought one like that on the side, and then one like that on the other side.”	Meaning-making
8	Sophia	“That makes sense. Yes, I agree with you.”	Meaning-making
9	Olivia	“Good” [laughs]	
10	Sophia	“Let's see. So, then we have to … since it is … should we have it mirrored there or there?”	Mirroring (weighted degree centrality 12)
11	Olivia	“Here. So then there must be six [blocks], it seems.”	Meaning-making
12	Sophia	“Yes, there are five [blocks], but we can have six [blocks], and there will be one without.”	
13	Olivia	“Is it five (blocks)? Yes, that there will be one in between?”	
14	Sophia	“So that there will be one [block] there, and then we kind of start. But then it becomes 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6.” [Sophia and Olivia count together]	
 
	Download: Download high-res image (295KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Screenshot of the Watermelon figure the student teachers co-created and mirrored.
Theoretical analysis. To ensure that the students understood the concept of mirroring, the teacher asked the students to build a pixel art figure and mirror it. Fig. 2 shows a screenshot of the Watermelon figure co-created by one of the student groups and mirrored in Minecraft. In turn 1, Olivia reacted to how Sophia created the Watermelon figure and questioned the direction in which it was created. Here, Turn 1 represents a breakdown that involved discovering an error and discussing how to address it [19]. This triggered a negotiation process [14] in turns 5–7, where Sophia and Olivia presented their different understandings of how the figure should be built. In turns 7–8, the student teachers gradually built on each other's statements and attempted to create a shared understanding and common ground of how to build the figure. In turns 6–14, the student teachers established a group discourse and shared meaning-making process [14]. In turns 5–8, the students discussed how to mirror the figure, and it is interesting to notice how they reflected on subject-specific knowledge, the math concept of mirroring, as part of their meaning-making process. This is an example of how Minecraft, as a tool, enables students to discuss math concepts and use the knowledge of such concepts in practice by actually building a mirrored figure. In turns 11–14, Olivia stated that they needed to build five blocks; however, after discussing with Sophia, they finally agreed to build six blocks. This is similar to the collaborative construction of shared knowledge, which is a premise in meaning-making processes [14].
The weighted degree centrality of the mirroring activity reflected in this figure was 12, a relatively high number (compared to the other figures in Table 3). This means that when working with building and mirroring the Watermelon figure, the students spent a significant amount of their time on the mirroring processes. This is interesting because it underlines that the students certainly “did” math—they talked about the math concept they were learning (mirroring), and they used their knowledge about mirroring in practice while building a mirrored figure of the watermelon. Thus, SNA provided interesting data about the mirroring process, which would not be so easily accessible with simply detailed IA of small/selected parts of the data.
3.2.2. Extract 2: building and mirroring the LiloStitch figure
Contextualizing the extract. The following extract was derived from the screen recording of a group of three students interacting and collaborating to build and mirror the LiloStitch figure in Minecraft (Fig. 3). The interaction occurred around the 27-min mark of the group work, toward the end of the building process. The extract focuses on how the students discussed the mirroring of the figure.
Turn	Participant	Empirical data/utterance	Analytic concept
1	Isabella	“They should be mirrored. And then the ears are wrong.”	Breakdown, mirroring (weighted degree centrality 13)
2	James	“Because?”	Negotiation
3	Isabella	“Because the ears are different from one side to the other.” [The ears in the figure should be slightly different on each side. It is the only thing different in the figures.]	Mirroring (weighted degree centrality 13)
4	James	“But it is not very difficult to fix.”	Negotiation
5	Isabella	“No, it is not … .”	
6	James	“But then we just fix it. We just do that.” [Flying to fix the ears]	Meaning-making
7	Isabella	“Now we have mirrored the figure.”	Mirroring (weighted degree centrality 13)
 
	Download: Download high-res image (384KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Screenshot of the LiloStitch figure the students co-created and mirrored.
Theoretical analysis. Fig. 3 shows a screenshot of the LiloStitch figure (left) cocreated by one of the student groups in Minecraft and the mirrored version of the figure (right). This extract began with Isabella pointing out (turn 1) that the figure should be mirrored and that the ears are not mirrored. This reflected a breakdown [19] when they discovered a mistake and did not know what to do, prompting a negotiation process [14]. When James asked what was wrong (turn 2), Isabella responded by explaining why the ears were not mirrored (turn 3), and the negation continued until turn 6. In turn 6, the students reached an agreement about how to mirror the ears and fix them, resembling a meaning-making process. It is also interesting to observe how the students discussed the notion of mirroring and how to approach this when building the figure (turns 1, 3, and 7).
This extract was chosen because it had the highest weighted degree centrality of the mirroring activity (i.e., the general amount of time and focus spent mirroring the figure), being 13. This indicated that the students focused more on mirroring the figure than on building the original version and discussing it, as compared to the other groups of students. One possible interpretation of and explanation for this may be that this is a large and complicated figure to mirror, therefore requiring more discussion on how to accomplish it. This aligns with what we see in the extract—namely that the students have some breakdowns and difficulties with mirroring the figure, especially the ears (turn 3). It is interesting to observe that this breakdown, from how to mirror the figure, led to a subject-specific discussion of the math concept they were focusing on (mirroring).
3.2.3. Extract 3: collaboration processes when building the Pikachu figure
Contextualizing the extract. This extract was taken from the screen recording of a group of three students interacting when they were collaborating on building the Pikachu figure in Minecraft (Fig. 4). The interaction below occurred around 15 min into the group work, in the middle of the building process. The extract focuses on how the students discussed, planned, and started building the Pikachu figure.
Turn	Participant	Empirical extract	Analytical concept
1	Leo	“Tony, now something has gone wrong here.”	Breakdown
2	Tony	“What's up there then?”	
3	Jacob	“Now something's wrong here, boys.”	Breakdown
4	Leo	“No, it is not.”	Negotiation
5	Jacob	“Yes.”	
6	Leo	“Yes, it has shifted one [block].”	Negotiation
7	Jacob	“We are one [block] too far to the left. Do not destroy.” [Talking to Leo who is removing one block from the figure]	
8	Leo	“I just removed it.”	
9	Jacob	“It must be there.” [Goes next to the figure to rebuild the block]	
10	Leo	“Should I build the tail again then?”	
11	Jacob	“I promise, the middle of the top is right, sort of. You see it's the outline.”	Meaning-making, collaboration activity (weighted degree centrality 179)
12	Leo	“Hmm?”	
13	Jacob	“Yes, because it's going to the right—do you see that? But it is not a crisis.”	
 
	Download: Download high-res image (390KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Screenshot of the Pikachu figure the students co-created.
Theoretical analysis. Fig. 4 shows a screenshot of the Pikachu figure co-created by one the student groups in Minecraft. This extract began with Leo exclaiming he had discovered something incorrect while constructing the figure (turn 1), reflecting a breakdown [19]. Following this, a negotiation process began (turns 4–11) and the students presented their differing opinions regarding the building process. In turn 11, Jacob tried to build a shared understanding with Leo, similar to the meaning-making process [14]. In extract 3, there was no focus on mirroring. Fig. 4 revealed that Pikachu was not mirrored because the students ran out of time. Hence, the Pikachu figure had the lowest weighted degree centrality (6) on mirroring of all the student groups (Table 3). However, the Pikachu figure had a relatively high weighted degree centrality on the collaboration activity of 179, which was the highest of all the student groups (Table 2). Building a large figure as Pikachu requires a higher weighted degree of collaboration, as it becomes more complex and the students need to interact more. Contrarily, when students are building a small figure, there is less need to collaborate on solutions to problems that arise. This indicated that the more complex a given task, the more the students need to collaborate to solve the task.
3.2.4. Extract 4: collaboration—cola figure
Contextualizing the extract. The following extract was derived from the screen recording of a group of three students interacting while collaborating on building and mirroring the Cola figure in Minecraft (Fig. 5). The interaction occurred approximately 3 min into the group work, at the start of planning the building process. The extract focuses on how the students discussed, planned, and began to build the Cola figure.
Turn	Participant	Empirical extract	Analytical concept
1	Liam	“But how does this go then, Hugo? What are you thinking now? What are your plans?”	Breakdown
2	Hugo	“Eh, I have to have room for the cola … . I do not think I write ‘Coca Cola’ … . There will only be room for ‘cola.’”	
3	Liam	“Yes, but why did you build it like that then?”	Negotiation
4	Emma	“C O L [A]—okay, we have to start here. If it starts here … A … then three blocks per [letter].”	
5	Liam	“Yes! It must be.”	Negotiation
6	Emma	“Eh, L O … so … C.”	
7	Liam	“Now it would have been fine with notes that could sketch out how to do it.”	
8	Emma	“Mmm”	
9	Liam	“Can you go back, Emma?”	
10	Emma	“Hmm?”	
11	Liam	“Oh yes! Oh! Ah!”	
12	Julie	“Ooh!”	
13	Emma	“Mm C O L … col … . This is crashing in … .”	
14	Julie	“Then you just have to move everything a notch away then … .”	Meaning-making,
Collaboration activity, (weighted degree centrality 69)
15	Emma	“Mmm!!!”	Meaning-making
16	Liam	“But take away a block of the cola then we can—eh, no it will be too short … .”	
17	Emma	“But maybe we can have it this way instead? Because then we can mirror this … .”	Mirroring (weighted degree centrality 12), meaning-making
 
	Download: Download high-res image (328KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Screenshot of the Cola figure the students cocreated and mirrored.
Theoretical analysis. Fig. 5 shows a screenshot of the Cola figure built by the students in Minecraft. This extract began with Liam discovering a mistake with the Cola figure they were building in turn 1. This has similarities to the notion of breakdown. Stahl [19] underlined that breakdowns are usually a driving force in small group interactions because others will respond with proposals for fixing the said breakdown. Accordingly, the breakdown was followed up by a discussion of how to fix the lettering problem and what blocks to use (turns 3–13). In turn 14, they reached a common understanding of how they could fix the problem, similar with the meaning-making process [14]. This finding is supported by the weighted degree of the collaboration activity derived from the SNA analysis, which has a weighted degree of 69, suggesting that this group is one of the most collaborative groups (Table 2). In turn 17, the activity of mirroring had a weighted degree centrality of 12, indicating that this is a relatively central activity that emerged between the students in the co-creation process. In summary, one can conclude that the participants when building the Cola figure in Minecraft were both active in collaborating and mirroring.
SNA provides us with an interesting analysis regarding the common interaction and collaboration patterns in the student groups, which we could not have obtained from a purely qualitative analysis. Using SNA helped us identify the nodes “collaboration” and “math concept 1–mirroring” as essential activities in all four student groups.
4. Discussion
4.1. How can Minecraft be used as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills and what are the implications for the development of 21st century skills?
4.1.1. Using Minecraft as an educational tool for learning a subject-specific skill facilitates collaborative learning processes
IA of the data extracts revealed the detailed collaborative learning processes that emerged as a result of using educational tool in a math class. Three different phases of collaborative learning were identified: a) breakdown, b) meaning-making, and c) group cognition. In extract 1–4, the initial phase of the collaboration process resembled a problem or breakdown phase, triggering further discussion and collaboration. As these phases emerged from IA of the data extracts, it suggests that they are empirically founded terms and are different from the theoretical terms in the conceptual framework. These data are supported by SNA, which showed an overview of the collaboration patterns, and the results revealed “collaboration” and “mirroring” as interaction patterns. An underlying premise of CSCL is that networked computers bring learners together in new ways and that shared digital environments can foster interactions that produce new understandings for groups [14]. In the extracts, we noticed that the groups collaboratively created a shared understanding of how to fix the problems. This follows the work of Stahl et al. [14], viewing meaning as shared and embodied in the artifacts in the world, underlining how groups can think and have cognitive agency. Valtonen et al. [20] analyzed different journals within the field of educational technology to develop an understanding of technology-related learning processes. Our study extends this research by offering an empirical intervention study exploring the use of educational tools and their impact and implications on the development of 21st century skills. Schulz et al. [18] studied how to use an educational tool as part of learning a subject-specific skill, and as such their work has some parallels to our findings. However, our findings took this research one step further because we also captured and analyzed two interaction patterns during group work. When using Minecraft as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills, two patterns of interaction were identified through using SNA: collaboration and mirroring. The collaboration pattern revealed the extent the student teachers collaborated and worked together when co-creating and building the figures (Fig. 2, Fig. 3, Fig. 4, Fig. 5) in Minecraft. Likewise, the mirroring pattern revealed the extent the student teachers participated in the activity of mirroring a figure in Minecraft.
4.1.2. Using Minecraft in math classes facilitates the development of 21st century skills
Data analysis indicated that the emerging social interactions between student teachers when using Minecraft as a mediating artifact in math classes facilitated the development of 21st century skills. Callaghan [25] explored how Minecraft could be used for teaching secondary students and described how it permitted the enhancement of engagement, collaboration, and creation of authentic learning activities. Furthermore, Karsenti and Bugmann [26] created a Minecraft challenge for 118 students and found that Minecraft increased motivation, development of collaboration skills, and programming skills, in line with our study. Sari et al. [6] emphasized how student collaboration skills are an important component that can support 21st century skills and how students can develop them. However, they did not emphasize the technological aspects of collaborative learning, which was a limitation. Our study thus extends their research by including a technological component, Minecraft, to mediate social interactions. Samsudin et al. [5] analyzed the implications of using Minecraft as a means of learning 21st century skills among primary school students, and the findings were similar to our study. We added to this research by exploring the use of Minecraft in a student teacher's context. Yilmaz and Yilmaz [9] investigated the impact of metacognitive support for increasing task and group awareness in CSCL through a pedagogic agent and found that it had a significant impact on students’ motivation, metacognitive awareness, and group processes. Similar to our findings, the authors observed a positive influence using a technological tool to mediate social interactions. However, there are limited studies explicitly focusing on educational tools and emphasizing how technology can trigger development of these skills. The present study builds and extends on the study by Andersen et al. [22] because they explored the use of Minecraft in a social science class, whereas our study focuses on math class. Our results showed that using Minecraft as an educational tool enhanced the students’ skills. This suggests that future teachers may be inspired to use Minecraft as an educational tool and design group work for the students to enable them to collaborate and work on subject-specific tasks in an engaging matter, which may improve the students’ skills.
4.2. How can SNA and IA be used as a research methodology for analyzing the use of Minecraft as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills?
SNA is a useful method for obtaining an overview of how the participants talked, collaborated, and interacted with each other, including connection to the activities. Gaining this network overview of the data would not have been possible by selecting only some empirical data extracts to analyze in detail.
Bokhove [38] argued that SNA is a useful method for exploring classroom interactions, underlining how it is important in capturing classroom interactions and analyzing the resulting data. We have extended this research by also exploring how SNA is useful for capturing collaborative learning in an educational context mediated by an educational tool. De Laat et al. [39] presented how SNA used in combination with content analysis could be used for studying CSCL activities. Similar to our study, the authors combined SNA and IA to explore CSCL activities in a math class using an educational tool for solving math tasks. However, we took the research by De Laat et al. [39] one step further by situating the context of our research in a specific empirical case exploring a real-life situation instead of discussing the benefits of combining the methods from a theoretical perspective. Marcos-Garcia et al. [43] used SNA as a rationale for implementing a method for supporting collaborative learning among actors and their emerging roles. Our study is an extension of the previous study and differs from it as we do not focus on analyzing the participants’ roles. We revealed two different collaboration patterns among the participants during their group work, suggesting that our study puts greater emphasis on the collaboration patterns. As such, our study extends the previous research using IA and SNA to explore the mutual development of mass collaboration in online communities [32] ndersen & Mørch.
Martínez-Monés et al. [41] explored how a mixed-methods approach (SNA combined with qualitative analysis) was used for studying participatory aspects of learning in CSCL contexts over three different case studies. Our study differs from this, as we conducted an intervention study by collecting and analyzing empirical data in a CSCL context, combining SNA and IA, to reveal collaboration patterns and aspects of collaborative learning. Wu and Nian [36] studied the dynamics of an online community using SNA to explore interaction-based and association-based relational ties among participants and artifacts under their pedagogical design. On a more general level, our study adds to this research by also exploring the social dynamics in an educational context, although our study places greater emphasis on the implications for collaborative learning and development of 21st century skills. In summary, there are limited studies using mixed-methods approach to analyze collaborative learning in a CSCL context mediated by an educational tool.
5. Conclusions, limitations, and future research
The present study contributes unique insights to the growing research on the use of technology in education to facilitate collaborative learning. By identifying aspects of collaborative learning emerging in group discussions mediated by Minecraft, this study acknowledges the potential that educational tools have for developing 21st century skills in education. As such, this study extends the current literature on the use of educational tools in CSCL. The processes we studied are examples of how teachers can utilize educational technology to facilitate active and engaged learning of subject-specific skills. In addition, these findings show how collaborative learning, viewed as the process of breakdown, negotiation, and meaning-making, emerges when using Minecraft to solve math tasks. Overall, the present findings imply a valuable starting point for creating learning designs that enable the development of 21st century skills through collaborative learning.
This study is a methodological contribution to the field of CSCL as it describes how to analyze and capture collaborative learning processes. The article goes beyond the traditional IA of qualitative data by integrating SNA into IA. When SNA (a network macro perspective on the data) and IA (a detailed micro perspective on the content of the data) are combined, the findings offer a rich understanding of collaborative learning when using an educational tool as a mediating artifact in learning a subject-specific skill. Such a combination of analyses of the same dataset increases data reliability. Using Minecraft as an educational tool for learning subject-specific skills, two patterns of collaborative interaction were identified using SNA: collaboration and mirroring.
These findings have implications for educational practice and researchers, especially when considering how to create learning designs for facilitating collaborative learning as part of developing 21st century skills. Our analysis illustrated that Minecraft can be used not only as an educational tool for subject-specific skill development but also enables collaboration, which is a key activity that students engage in when using Minecraft. In conclusion, the present study sets an innovative agenda in CSCL research for examining collaborative learning as a 21st century skill. However, this study has some limitations. First, it focused only on collaborative learning, which is only one of several important 21st century skills. In future studies, it would be interesting to explore whether other aspects of 21st century skills can be triggered using educational tools for learning subject-specific skills. Second, although this study indicates students’ engagement, collaboration, on-task engagement, and activity towards the learning objectives, it does not assess whether the learning objectives were fully achieved. Future research evaluating subject-specific skill learning through group learning in Minecraft and testing Minecraft in other contexts or domain-specific subjects and observe what collaborative learning processes emerge are warranted.

Using Minecraft as an Educational Tool
Middle school students create their own 3D virtual worlds and learn lessons about communication, collaboration, and digital citizenship through the first-person sandbox-style game called Minecraft.
December 10, 2013
 
Save this article to get better recommendations in your Homeroom feed.
View transcript
Minecraft, the popular sandbox game, is beloved by educators for its use as a learning tool. It enables students to explore, create and imagine in a completely different way than they could ever do in a traditional classroom. The beauty of the game is in the way it unleashes the creativity of both students and teachers.
But for Minecraft novices like me, it's hard to know exactly where to begin unleashing all that creativity. If you're just getting started with Minecraft, it might be helpful to use the game in an activity of your own design. That way, you familiarize yourself with the powerful tools for educators available in MinecraftEdu by building a virtual world for the class to explore before you jump into to using the game as a creative tool for your students.
 
Photo credit: Institute of Play
A student at Quest to Learn playing Minecraft.
This semester, I used Minecraft for the first time in my ninth grade science class at Quest to Learn. I decided to incorporate the game into my curriculum to meet a specific learning goal: to aid in students' understanding of our DNA extraction lab. In this lab, students practice a step-by-step technique that involves adding certain chemicals to a mixture of cells in order to break apart the cellular components and isolate the DNA molecules.
Working with a game designer from Institute of Play at my school, we created a valuable cell model in Minecraft that could mimic the real properties of a cell, and the real interactions between a cell membrane and the different chemicals used to extract DNA, which students could experiment with in the game.
If you're considering using Minecraft in your classroom, here are four steps to walk you through incorporating the game into your curriculum.
Step 1: Define the Learning Goals
The reason I chose to use Minecraft as a learning tool was to aid in the students' understanding of our DNA extraction lab. When I did this lab with my students in the past, they walked away with very little understanding as to why they followed those steps and what exactly was happening at a cellular level.
My vision was to create a cell model in Minecraft that students could explore and manipulate. This pre-lab activity would allow them to use different "chemical tools" to break down the various parts of the cell and, in the end, identify a list of materials needed to complete the DNA extraction lab.
Step 2: Create the Mechanics and Build the Virtual World
Though I am a novice to Minecraft, I was able to work closely with a game designer, Claudio, to help create a realistic cell model. Using the MinecraftEdu educator tools, Claudio renamed the Minecraft tools with different chemical names. He also figured out how to make some of the materials susceptible to certain chemical tools, while being impenetrable to others. Once this mechanic was ironed out, we were very quickly able to create the world of the cell.
In the end, we had a single-player, immersive world in which students could explore the inside of a cell while using chemical tools to break through to the DNA. They were using their content knowledge to find the DNA, and they were figuring out which chemicals were necessary to dissolve the components of the cell.
Step 3: Focus the Exploration
I created a student handout to serve as a guide for focusing their exploration. In addition to providing setup instructions to start that exploration, the handout included a checklist for exploring the cell, and questions for students to answer as they interacted with the different chemical tools in the cell.
The purpose of the student handout was to provide them with some sort of direction as they explored, and also to point out connections between the game and our class content that they may not have noticed on their own. We added extra organelles to the model, and we even created a realistic cell membrane that mimics the lipid bilayer found in real membranes. In addition to preparing the students for the upcoming lab activity, this game also served as review for our cells unit.
Step 4: Assess Progress Toward Learning Goals
The questions on the handout also provided a way for me to assess students. I was able to see if they could make connections back to course content (review) while also getting a clear picture of whether they were able to meet the learning goal and identify the chemicals needed for the lab. By the end of the activity, they had a clear understanding of the changes the cell goes through during the DNA extraction lab, and when we actually completed the lab, the students felt comfortable talking about it and could successfully explain why we used each chemical.
The activity was a resounding success. Engagement was at an all-time high. Students who felt weak in science class were able to approach the subject in a way that felt comfortable for them. Some students who were new to Minecraft struggled in the beginning, but quickly picked it up after a brief tutorial from a Minecraft regular.
My students ask me often when we will use Minecraft again. I already have two projects in the works, both involving the use of Minecraft as a creative tool so that students are actually creating something of their own that's unique. Stay tuned to learn more about these projects!
For further resources, check out the webinar series from the MacArthur Foundation's Digital Media & Learning Research Hub and Institute of Play's webinar about how we've used Minecraft at our school.
Minecraft Resources on the Web
	Minecraft: Official website for the game
	Mojang: Persson's (developer of Minecraft) independent game studio
	The Minecraft Teacher: Joel Levin's blog about Minecraft and teaching
	MinecraftEdu: Educators and programmers working to make Minecraft accessible for schools
	MinecraftEdu Wiki: Tutorials, lessons, and resources
	Minecraft Teachers Google Group: Community to brainstorm, troubleshoot, and find inspiration
	Real-World Examples: Examples of Minecraft use in the classroom
	YouTube Videos Featuring MinecraftEdu : Tutorials, interviews, in-class footage, and more
	Pixel Pushers: A project to create a MinecraftEdu toolset for teachers
	Thesis on Collaborative Problem-Solving in Minecraft (PDF): a Masters degree project by Björn Berg Marklund
Please share your own classroom adventures with Minecraft in the comments section below.
Share This Story
	
	 
	
	 
Filed Under
	Game-Based Learning
	Technology Integration
	Science
	9-12 High School
________________________________________
Game-Based Learning
Increasing the Rigor in Your Math Class Through Gamification
Teachers can harness the design principles of games to cultivate students’ curiosity, encourage productive struggle, and make math work compelling.
By Carl Slater
August 6, 2026
 
Walk into almost any classroom today and you’ll find students who have spent thousands of hours navigating games. Whether through video games, mobile apps, or social media, many young people regularly engage with these systems built around curiosity, challenge, feedback, and progression. Predictions of a world increasingly shaped by game mechanics feel more accurate each day. Rather than viewing this reality as competition for students’ attention, I try to harness these same design principles to make mathematics compelling.
Gamification is the intentional use of game mechanics, dynamics, and design elements to motivate action. Yes, I agree with you that gamification should never mean replacing thinking with entertainment. Instead, it should create learning experiences that invite students to explore and embrace increasingly challenging tasks. In my classroom, rigor becomes the reward. As in a game of Tetris, in which success unlocks greater complexity, proficiency should lead students toward richer challenges. Effective gamification also gives students meaningful choices and collaborative experiences.
Read Full Story
________________________________________
Game-Based Learning
Creating a Curriculum-Based Board Game From Scratch
Instructions for middle and high school teachers who are interested in assigning their students an engaging group project.
By Zoe Caponegro
June 25, 2026
 
Though I’ve taught a variety of grade levels, this year presented a new challenge: teaching high school seniors. Going in, one of my top priorities was to make sure students stayed engaged and focused through their final exams and graduation ceremonies. I wanted to introduce a fresh and unique project—something that instilled intrinsic value and a desire to not only attend class, but also work diligently.
Seeking inspiration, I went to a conference where I took a workshop about game-based learning. The workshop centered on the idea that students can learn by playing different types of board games, even curriculum-oriented ones produced by their own teachers. As a lifelong board games fan myself, I was sold. I knew what to do next: design a project where students don’t merely play a game, but create one.
Read Full Story
________________________________________
Student Engagement
The First 8 Minutes of Class
These ideas can help you make the most of the first few minutes of class and create a routine that gets students thinking and ready to learn.
By Cheryl Abla
August 19, 2026
 
I spend a great deal of time in classrooms, and I continue to see the first five to eight minutes used for worksheets or questions projected on the board. Students work while the teacher takes attendance or prepares materials. By the time the morning work is collected or tucked into a desk, students can quickly learn that it doesn’t really matter.
What if teachers used this brief window of time differently?
Read Full Story
________________________________________
Differentiated Instruction
7 Ways to Put UDL Into Action in the Elementary Grades
Teachers can design learning experiences with an approach that supports all students where they are and helps them develop transferable skills.
By Bianca Starck
August 19, 2026
 
In August 2025, I had a very diverse grade three class: multilingual, multicultural, and “multiready” learners with remarkably different readiness levels. I use the term “multiready” instead of “multilevel” because the latter implies higher and lower achievers. As of day one, I knew that providing opportunities for them to demonstrate their prior knowledge, build on their understanding, and apply their learning through a variety of strategies and learning experiences would be instrumental to their success. The only question was how.
The Universal Design for Learning (UDL) framework was not new to me: I had applied some of its principles in my teaching practice before. However, faced with the challenge ahead, I was ready to implement it fully across subjects. My yearlong approach encouraged my students to intentionally show their learning in different ways and broadened their views on their application of knowledge and learning from each other. Above all, it changed their mindset about learning, as they understood that whether it’s through a written test, a game, or a piece of art, there is more than one way to learn, experiment, and demonstrate learning.
Read Full Story
________________________________________
New Teachers
3 Books That Support Teacher Mindset Going Into the School Year
These books help new educators gain insight into the emotional labor of the profession and prepare for the first day of school and beyond.
By Christina Torres Cawdery
August 19, 2026
 
Summer break is essential preparation time for teachers, not only to get some well-deserved rest, but also to have the opportunity to consider our practice and reflect on the kind of teacher we want to be and the student spaces we want to create.
There are plenty of practical recommendations for teachers looking to create or revamp their curriculum or hone their classroom culture as they prepare for a new year. Something that is occasionally overlooked, though, is the time we spend preparing our mindsets as educators.
Read Full Story
________________________________________
Arts Integration
Bringing Abstract Concepts to Life in Science Classes
Acting out skits that provide real-world contexts can help students engage with and understand complicated science content.
By Deame Hua
August 18, 2026
 
Biology is often a challenging subject for students to grasp, especially when we start tackling some of the more abstract concepts. A few years ago, I was getting ready to start our unit on cellular respiration—the process of using sugar in our body to make a usable form of cellular energy known as ATP—and wanted to find a way to make this topic more engaging and more memorable for my students.
After taking some time to think about what might work, I finally settled on using skits to help my students explore biology concepts. Not only were my students far more engaged than I’d seen before, but they were genuinely understanding the content.
Read Full Story
________________________________________
Trauma-Informed Practices
Guiding Students Toward Forgiveness Helps Them Refocus on a More Positive Future
Introspective and collaborative tasks can lead learners to view their past hardships with a new perspective that leads to personal growth.
By Maurice J. Elias
August 18, 2026
 
Forgiveness can be a hard concept for students, especially adolescents, to understand. It seems to clash with students’ natural wish to see transgressors “get what they deserve.” Forgiveness can be seen as letting people “off the hook,” as somehow excusing them for the harm they have done. Come to think of it, it’s not an easy concept for most adults to embrace!
Yet, in my work, I’ve found that students involved in traumatic events are “stuck” in the past and devote so much cognitive and emotional energy to thoughts of revenge or change that they have reduced energy for learning in the present. Teachers can address this challenge with reflection-based activities that focus on the topic of forgiveness.
Read Full Story
________________________________________
Classroom Management
An Approach to Classroom Management That Builds Students’ Independence
Elementary teachers can empower students to address some of their own needs, allowing for smoother lessons and more time spent learning.
By Donna Paul
August 18, 2026
 
In my upper elementary Montessori classroom, I learned early that student independence doesn’t happen by chance—it’s built into the structure of the classroom management plan. When that structure is intentional, students stop waiting for permission at every turn and start solving small problems on their own.


Examining the effectiveness of gamification as a tool promoting teaching and learning in educational settings: a meta-analysis
Minzi Li 1, Siyu Ma 1,*, Yuyang Shi 2,*
	Author information
	Article notes
	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC10591086  PMID: 37876838
Abstract
The integration of gamification into educational settings has gained recognition for its potential to boost student motivation, engagement, interest, and learning outcomes. Despite its popularity, research on gamification has produced mixed results regarding student learning outcomes. This meta-analysis aims to synthesize the existing empirical evidence on the effectiveness of gamification as a tool for promoting teaching and learning in educational settings. Forty-one studies with 49 independent samples involving more than 5,071 participants were included in our analysis. Results from random effects models showed an overall significant large effect size (g = 0.822 [0.567 to 1.078]). The research performed the moderator analysis to scrutinize the effects of a number of factors on the relationship between gamification and student learning outcomes. The study uncovered significant moderating effects for user type, educational discipline, design principles for educational gamification, duration of “gameful” experience, and learning environment. However, measurement of student outcomes and publication type did not appear to have any significant moderating effect. Those findings hold important implications for improving and implementing gamification to promote teaching and learning in future research.
Keywords: gamification, learning outcomes, educational settings, meta-analysis, design principles, gameful experience, learning environment
1. Introduction
Over the past 40 years, the field of educational technology research has undergone significant development, evolving from a specialized niche area to a prominent subfield within education. Alongside this evolution, the focus of research has shifted from an almost sole emphasis on the effect of technology on learning outcomes to a broader examination of different aspects of educational technology (e.g., usage, evaluation). One such aspect that has garnered increasing attention in recent years is gamification (Domínguez et al., 2013; Huang et al., 2020). Coined in 2008 (Marczewski, 2013), gamification refers to using elements from games in non-gaming environments (Deterding et al., 2011; Garland, 2015). It is important to distinguish gamification from game-based learning, as the former as a broader concept only utilizes components of games in real-world situations, while the latter employs full-featured games to deliver skill or knowledge (Kapp, 2012; Wijaya et al., 2022). Gamification has found widespread application in various domains (Caponetto et al., 2014), including business (Moradian et al., 2014), math (Yıldırım, 2017), and science (Chen et al., 2018). In recent years, there has been a notable increase in studies exploring gamification in educational contexts (Seaborn and Fels, 2015). The key challenges facing modern education are often attributed to students’ lack of engagement and motivation to actively participate in the learning process. One potential solution to address this issue involves introducing rewards and recognition for students’ efforts and accomplishments, thereby fostering increased motivation and participation. This approach is rooted in the utilization of game elements to enhance the learning experience (Kiryakova et al., 2014). In education, gamification is not a standalone product, but rather a creative and structured process of incorporating game elements into educational settings with the aim of motivating learner behavior and promoting academic achievement (Educause, 2011; Jacobs, 2013). There is a growing body of evidence suggesting that gamification has become widely recognized as an effective tool in promoting learning outcomes in various educational settings (Groening and Binnewies, 2019; Lopez and Tucker, 2019).
Research has shown many advantages of gamification in educational contexts. For example, recent studies have validated the potential of gamification to improve student motivation, engagement, and interaction in education, while allowing them to immerse themselves in experiential learning (Lopez and Tucker, 2019). This is particularly important in the context of psychology, where motivation is seen as the driving force behind the behavior with a dynamic relationship between internal and intrinsic forces and affective processes leading to personal, social, and psychological well-being (Sailer et al., 2017). Gamification was found to increase extrinsic and intrinsic motivation by getting learners involved in tasks through ludic activities (Buckley and Doyle, 2016), and this is particularly evident in the educational context, where gamification promotes student participation in the classroom and stimulates direct interaction between students and teachers (Alsawaier, 2018). The relationship between gamification and learning in education is further explained by theories such as the theory of gamified learning, which suggests that gamification has the potential to positively impact both instructional content and learning outcomes (Landers, 2014). Manzano-León et al. (2021) also highlighted gamification as a highly effective tool in promoting the development of curricular, and cognitive competencies.
Despite the growing popularity and potential benefit of gamification, its effectiveness of it in improving academic performance remains uncertain. The previous empirical literature has produced mixed results. Some studies have reported positive effects of gamification with varying effect sizes (Chen and Chiu, 2016; Homer et al., 2018), while others have found no effects (Rachels and Rockinson-Szapkiw, 2018). These conflicting results make it difficult to draw conclusions about the effectiveness of gamification in enhancing learning outcomes. In order to shed more light on this issue, efforts need to be made to quantify the impact of gamification on student achievement in education. In this research, we conduct a meta-analytic study that thoroughly explores the issue through moderator analysis. The analysis includes a number of variables: user type, educational discipline, design principles for educational gamification, duration of “gameful” experience, learning environment, measurement of student outcomes and publication type. The subsequent section of this paper will delve into each of these moderators in detail.
1.1. Moderator factors
1.1.1. User type
The variable, user type, may generate varying results (Grivokostopoulou et al., 2019; Eltahir et al., 2021). Users with a higher education level were found to achieve better learning outcomes (Lister, 2015; Kim and Castelli, 2021) as they were found of higher engagement towards the gamified intervention (Wang et al., 2009; Jahnke, 2010) and stronger sensitivity to the social modeling (Morris and Venkatesh, 2000). However, other studies found that the effect of gamification design on students’ academic performance may not vary based on their level of schooling (Morris and Venkatesh, 2000). Given these conflicting results, we decided to examine the user type as a potential moderator factor in our study.
1.1.2. Educational discipline
Gamified learning’s effects on student learning outcomes can vary depending on the discipline. Over the past few years, gamification has garnered interest in various academic fields (Bai et al., 2020). Subhash and Cudney (2018) emphasized how the subject area affects the approach to gamified learning. The computing field has been the primary focus of gamified learning studies, likely due to its ability to facilitate the creation and investigation of gamified applications and platforms (Sun-lin and Chiou, 2017; Tsai et al., 2020). However, there are other educational disciplines like science, language, and communication where gamification can be applicable and feasible (Subhash and Cudney, 2018). To better understand the conditions that influence the effectiveness of gamification, we decided to investigate the educational disciplines (see details in the coding scheme).
1.1.3. Design principles for educational gamification
Design principles for educational gamification is a critical factor in developing effective gamification strategies for achieving positive learning outcomes. Within the gamification research landscape, several widely used approaches, such as the PBL triangle (i.e., the interaction of points, badges, and leaderboards) (Werbach and Hunter, 2015), the gamification design model (Mora et al., 2016), or the framework for agile gamification of E-learning (Wongso et al., 2015) have gained significant recognition. However, despite the inherent strengths of these approaches, their efficiency may be limited when confronted with the intricate and strategic process of gamification (Navarro-Mateos et al., 2021). For instance, the use of gamification elements in educational settings has often been confined to simple point-based systems, commonly referred to as “Pointification,” which fails to fully leverage the potential of gamification (Seaborn and Fels, 2015). Similarly, the player-centered design frameworks can only be applicable to specific domains, leading to a potential gap between the promise of gamification and its current applications in education. Thus, it is imperative to acknowledge the necessity for a reflective and elaborate design process, for which more comprehensive models like the MDA model proposed by Hunicke et al. (2004) come into play (González-Fernández et al., 2022). This framework offers a structured approach to incorporating game elements and facilitates the balanced design principles of game mechanics, dynamics, and esthetics in educational contexts. While initially developed for game design, the MDA framework has gained widespread adoption and application in the field of gamification (Werbach et al., 2012). Furthermore, empirical evidence, exemplified by the study conducted by Cordero-Brito and Mena (2020), solidifies the significance and broad utilization of the MDA model in gamification research. Their comprehensive analysis of gamification articles published between 2011 and 2016 identified the MDA model as the most prevailing instructional design model in the gamification literature. This underscores the importance of delving deeper into the impact of design principles for educational gamification and highlights the usefulness of the MDA system in doing so (Manzano-León et al., 2021). Manzano-León et al. (2021) classified design principles for educational gamification based on the MDA system, enabling the identification of mechanics, dynamics, and esthetics, as well as their potential combinations, for possible incorporation into gamification strategies. By using the MDA system as a guide, educators or instructors can design and implement gamification in education more effectively, resulting in enhanced student learning outcomes.
1.1.4. Duration of “gameful” experience
The duration of “gameful” experience, which refers to the length of time in which the gamification is implemented, is an essential factor to consider in evaluating the effectiveness of gamification on student achievement. Previous research has yielded conflicting results (Tsay et al., 2018; Mahmud et al., 2020; Mays et al., 2020). Kim and Castelli (2021) suggested that long-term intervention (i.e., 20 weeks) may significantly facilitate learners’ engagement and motivation, resulting in higher academic performance. However, other studies have found that the optimal peak effect of gamified learning is achieved in shorter durations, typically less than a week (Racey et al., 2016; Lei et al., 2022). Therefore, this moderator was introduced in our meta-analysis to examine the effectiveness of gamification in promoting teaching and learning in educational contexts. We categorized “gameful” experience into five groups based on length (see details in the coding scheme).
1.1.5. Learning environment
The success of incorporating gamification in education is heavily influenced by the learning environment in which it is being used. Previous studies have emphasized the significance of learning conditions, whether it be online, offline, or in a hybrid format, in shaping how students interact with gamification and their overall learning outcomes (Huang and Hew, 2015; Ninaus et al., 2015; Stansbury and Earnest, 2016). However, the role of the learning environment as a moderator of the effectiveness of gamification has produced mixed results in previous research. Some studies have reported that certain learning conditions can improve academic achievement, while others have yielded conflicting results (Stansbury and Earnest, 2016; Denny et al., 2018). Therefore, it is essential to identify the optimal learning environment for implementing gamification based on empirical literature to ensure its effectiveness.
1.1.6. Measurement of student outcomes
The implementation of gamification in educational contexts has been increasingly explored as a means to enhance students’ learning outcomes (Ritzhaupt et al., 2021). However, the efficacy of gamification in education has produced inconsistent findings (Huang et al., 2020). Inocencio (2018) attributed this contentiousness to the issue of measurement, as different measures are employed to evaluate student outcomes, making it difficult to discern patterns (Johnson et al., 2016). Academic performance, motivation, and engagement are frequently utilized outcome measures in gamification research (Dichev and Dicheva, 2017; Zainuddin et al., 2020; Rivera and Garden, 2021). Academic performance provides a tangible measure of the effectiveness of gamification in improving students’ knowledge acquisition and application (Rivera and Garden, 2021). Motivation holds importance as it influences students’ attention, persistence, and effort in learning activities (Brophy et al., 2013). Engagement reflects students’ dedication and participation in the subject and various tasks (Segura-Robles et al., 2020). However, there is a lack of uniformity in measurements employed in previous research to measure the outcomes of gamification (Tomaselli et al., 2015; Sailer and Homner, 2020). To address this issue, our objective was to investigate whether the effectiveness of gamification in educational settings remains consistent when evaluated using different measures to assess student outcomes.
1.2. Research aims
The present study aims to provide an updated comprehensive synthesis of the current literature on gamification, with a specific focus on assessing the impact of moderator variables on the variability of effect sizes between studies regarding gamification and learning outcomes.
Two research questions have been formulated to achieve the study’s objectives.
	(1) What is the overall effect of gamification on students’ learning outcomes?
	(2) What factors may moderate the effects of gamification on student learning outcomes?
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Identifying primary studies
The procedure for locating related primary studies was carried out as follows. First, we conducted a thorough search across academic databases to locate pertinent studies released from 2010 to 2022, including ACM Digital Library, ERIC, IEEE Xplore, JSTOR, PubMed, ScienceDirect, Scopus, Web of Science and SpringerLink. For the purpose of this review, two sets of keywords were employed. The first set comprised terms related to gamification, using gamif* to encompass all possible variations of “gamification,” “gamify,” and “gamified learning.” The second set of search terms included terms pertained to learning, course, class, performance, outcomes, education, influence, impact, or effect, which were used in the following search query: gamif* AND (learning OR education OR course OR class OR performance OR outcomes OR influence OR impacts OR effects). In addition to these databases, the same keywords were also used to search Google and Google Scholar.
2.2. Inclusion and exclusion criteria
2.2.1. Inclusion criteria
Upon identification of primary studies, the subsequent inclusion and exclusion criteria were utilized to arrive at the final sample of studies.
	Studies should adhere to the defined concept of gamification as provided in the study.
	Studies were required to report sufficient statistical data (e.g., means, sample sizes) to make the meta-analytic techniques applicable.
	The study should specify the target population as students at any educational level within the context of a formal educational setting.
	Studies were obligated to present at least one comparison of learning outcomes between a class that utilized gamification and one that did not (i.e., a between-subjects research design). Within-subject designs were deleted because they could lead to carry-over effects (Charness et al., 2012).
	Eligible studies should be reported in English.
2.2.2. Exclusion criteria
	Studies were excluded from the analysis if their sole focus was on game-based learning.
	Studies were removed from the analysis if they relied exclusively on students’ self-reported results without objective measures.
	Studies were disqualified if they did not provide precise details regarding the design principles for educational gamification employed.
	Studies that were limited to only offering theoretical discussions or non-empirical descriptions of gamification were ruled out from the analysis.
The process flowchart for the search, identification, screening, coding and extraction stages in our investigation is presented in Figure 1.
Figure 1.
 
Open in a new tab
PRISMA (Page et al., 2021) flowchart of the selection process.
2.3. Coding scheme
The codebook, which was developed using the existing literature on gamification, was applied to code the data. The following is a summary of the codebook:
	Author information including author(s) and year of publication (e.g., 2017; 2021).
	Publication type (1-Journal article, 2-Thesis/dissertation, 3-Conference proceeding).
	User type (1-Elementary school user, 2-Secondary school user; 3-Higher education user).
	Educational discipline (1-Science, 2-Math, 3-Engineering/computing, 4-Social science, 5-Business, 6-Others, 7- Not mentioned).
	Design principles for educational gamification (1-Mechanism, 2-Dynamics + Esthetics, 3-Mechanics; 4-Mechanics + Dynamics; 5-Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics).
	Duration of “gameful” experience (1-1-week, 2–1 week-1 month, 3–1 month-3 months, 4–3 months-1 semester, 5- > 1 semester)
	Learning environment (1-Online, 2-Offline, 3-Hybrid).
	Measurement of student outcomes (1-Academic performance, 2-Engagement, 3-Motivation).
	Statistical information required to calculate effect sizes (e.g., mean, sample size, standard deviation).
2.4. Reliability of coding
In order to perform the task, two coders were trained and instructed on the coding protocol, which was then practiced in seven studies. The results were subsequently discussed and deliberated to ensure that all data was coded adhering to the established coding protocol. The two coders then coded all included qualifying studies independently. The percentage of absolute agreement between the two coders was 96.4%. Any discrepancies were resolved through discussion. The rigorous training and thorough coding process used in this study ensured high inter-coder reliability, thereby increasing the validity and accuracy of the findings. A descriptive summary of the included studies is presented in Table 1 to provide an overview of the research evidence analyzed.
Table 1.
Quantitative description of included studies.
Study (Year)	Publication type	Participant	User type	Educational discipline	Design principles for educational gamification	Duration of “gameful” experience	Learning environment	Student outcomes
		Treatmentn	Controln						
Alzaid (2018)
Thesis/dissertation	10	10	Higher education user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Bernik et al. (2015)
Conference proceeding	28	27	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	> 1 semester	Hybrid	Academic performance
Bernik et al. (2018)
Conference proceeding	87	95	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	1 week–1 month	Online	Academic performance
Chen and Chiu (2016)
Journal article	28	30	Elementary school user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 month-3 month	Hybrid	Engagement
Chen et al. (2018)
Journal article	44	36	Higher education user	Science	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	> 1 semester	Online	Academic performance
Chen et al. (2015)
Journal article	51	47	Elementary school user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics	<1 week	Hybrid	Motivation
Cosgrove (2016)
Thesis/dissertation	22	22	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
DeLeeuw and Mayer (2011)
Journal article	86	48	Higher education user	999	Mechanics + Dynamics	<1 week	Online	Academic performance
Denny et al. (2018)
Conference proceeding	521	180	Higher education user	Science	Mechanics	3 month–1 semester	Online	Engagement
Eltahir et al. (2021)
Journal article	54	53	Higher education user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	3 month–1 semester	Hybrid	Academic performance
Grivokostopoulou et al. (2019)
Journal article	43	43	Higher education user	Business	Dynamics + Esthetics	1 week–1 month	Online	Academic performance
Hakulinen et al. (2013)
Journal article	142	139	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics	3 months–1semester	Online	Engagement
Homer et al. (2018) Study 1
Journal article	18	14	Elementary school user	Social science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Homer et al. (2018) Study 2
Journal article	16	16	Elementary school user	Social science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Homer et al. (2018) Study 3
Journal article	16	13	Elementary school user	Social science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Homer et al. (2018) Study 4
Journal article	13	14	Elementary school user	Social science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Hong and Masood (2014)
Journal article	29	31	Secondary school user	999	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	<1 week	Hybrid	Engagement
Huang and Hew (2015)
Conference proceeding	21	19	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	999	Hybrid	Engagement
Huang et al. (2019)
Journal article	25	23	Higher education user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Engagement
Jo et al. (2018)
Journal article	30	30	Secondary school user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	1 month–3 months	Hybrid	Engagement
Krause et al. (2015) Study 1
Conference proceeding	67	71	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 week–1 month	Online	Engagement
Krause et al. (2015) Study 2
Conference proceeding	67	68	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 week–1 month	Online	Engagement
Lam et al. (2018) Study 1
Journal article	22	30	Secondary school user	Social science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Lam et al. (2018) Study 2
Journal article	22	20	Secondary school user	Social science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Liao et al. (2018)
Journal article	139	136	Higher education user	Social science	Dynamics	> 1 semester	Hybrid	Academic performance
Liu (2016)
Journal article	57	53	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Mahmud et al. (2020)
Journal article	28	20	Higher education user	Science	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Mays et al. (2020)
Journal article	24	24	Elementary school user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Moradian et al. (2014)
Conference proceeding	9	12	Higher education user	Business	Mechanics + Dynamics	<1 week	Online	Engagement
Ninaus et al. (2015)
Journal article	13	17	Higher education user	999	Mechanics + Dynamics	<1 week	Online	Academic performance
Ortiz-Rojas et al. (2017)
Conference proceeding	50	50	Higher education user	Social science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Motivation
Parra-González et al. (2020)
Journal article	35	25	Secondary school user	999	Mechanics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Poole et al. (2014)
Journal article	31	23	Higher education user	Business, information system	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Poondej and Lerdpornkulrat (2016)
Journal article	304	273	Higher education user	Business	Mechanics + Dynamics	999	Hybrid	Engagement
Silpasuwanchai et al. (2016)
Conference proceeding	15	15	Higher education user	999	Mechanics	999	Online	Engagement
Stansbury and Earnest (2016)
Journal article	49	44	Higher education user	Science	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	> 1 semester	Offline	Academic performance
Star (2015) Study 1
Thesis/dissertation	104	95	Higher education user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	3 month–1 semester	Hybrid	Engagement
Star (2015) Study 2
Thesis/dissertation	95	95	Higher education user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	3 month–1 semester	Hybrid	Engagement
Sun-Lin and Chiou (2017) Study 1
Journal article	24	24	Elementary school user user	Math	Mechanics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Sun-Lin and Chiou (2017) Study 2
Journal article	24	25	Elementary school user user	Math	Mechanics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Tsai et al. (2020)
Journal article	17	18	Elementary school user user	Science	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Tsay et al. (2018)
Journal article	68	68	Higher education user	Business	Mechanics + Dynamics	> 1 semester	Hybrid	Engagement
Turan and Meral (2018)
Journal article	23	23	Secondary school user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Engagement
Turan et al. (2016)
Journal article	46	48	Elementary school user	Engineering/computing	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 month–3 months	Online	Academic performance
White (2020)
Thesis/dissertation	13	17	Higher education user	Others	Mechanics	999	Hybrid	Academic performance
Yıldırım (2017)
Journal article	49	48	Higher education user	Math	Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	3 month–1 semester	Hybrid	Academic performance
Young and Wang (2014) Study 1
Journal article	27	25	Elementary school user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Young and Wang (2014) Study 2
Journal article	26	26	Secondary school user	Social science	Mechanics + Dynamics	1 week–1 month	Hybrid	Academic performance
Zainuddin (2018)
Journal article	27	29	Secondary school user	Science	Mechanics	1 month–3 month	Hybrid	Motivation
Open in a new tab
2.5. Analysis
Comprehensive Meta-Analysis (CMA) version 3.7 was adopted to conduct our analysis (Borenstein et al., 2005). CMA is a commercially available software program that provides a wide array of meta-analytic functions, including the ability to calculate effect sizes, examine moderator effects, and detect publication bias. CMA provides two common models for estimating effect sizes (i.e., the fixed effect model and the random effects model). The fixed effect model assumes a consistent true effect size across all studies, implying that any discrepancies in effect sizes between studies solely arise from sampling errors (Borenstein et al., 2021). The random effects model posits that discrepancies in effect sizes may be due to between-study differences as well as sampling errors. Given our observation of a good proportion of between-study variance, we opted to utilize the random effects model in this study.
This meta-analysis comprised studies carried out in diverse contexts and disciplines and involved different types of users. Moreover, the studies employed a variety of design principles and implemented gamification for varying duration and in diverse learning environments. As a result, we can reasonably assume that a good amount of variance was ascribed to between-study differences. As for study weighting, the random effects model allocates weights to each of the included studies in the analysis employing the inverse of variance method to minimize within-study variance and estimated between-study variance.
To prevent potential bias, multiple effect sizes within one study were combined in the meta-analysis, and each study was limited to one effect size, except for studies with multiple independent samples. Each sample in these studies was considered a separate study, providing unique information to the meta-analysis (Borenstein et al., 2021).
Standardizing effect sizes is a crucial step in any meta-analysis before analyzing data. In this study, we opted to use Hedge’s g as the standardized measure of effect size. This decision was informed by the fact that Hedge’s g is superior to Cohen’s d in tackling bias caused by small sample sizes (Borenstein et al., 2021). After the overall effect size of gamification on learning outcomes was calculated, the heterogeneity of studies was checked by Q statistics. The Q test compares observed errors to expected sampling errors to determine if differences in effect sizes can be attributed to between-study differences (Lipsey and Wilson, 2001).
To explore the source of heterogeneity, the between-study Q statistics were employed in the moderator analysis. T2 and I2 calculations were also performed for the estimation of dispersion that resulted from between-study differences. T2 represents the degree of true heterogeneity while I2 indicates the dispersion observed in relation to true heterogeneity (Borenstein et al., 2021).
3. Results
3.1. Overall effect of gamification on student learning outcomes
Figure 2 displays a forest plot that presents 49 independent studies with a total of 5,071 participants along with their author(s), publication year, Hedge’s g (organized by effect size), standard error, variance, confidence interval, Z-value, and value of p. The random-effects model yielded an overall effect size of g = 0.822 (95%CI [0.567–1.078], p < 0.001), indicating a statistically significant effect size (Cohen, 1992).
Figure 2.
 
Open in a new tab
Forest plot of effect size (Hedges’ g) in a random-effects model.
The Q-statistic is a statistical measure used to evaluate whether all the studies analyzed share a common effect size (Borenstein et al., 2021). In this study, the Q-value was calculated at 812.417 with 48 degrees of freedom and a value of p of p < 0.001. Consequently, the null hypothesis that the effect size is identical across all studies is rejected. Additionally, T2 was measured at 0.730 and I2 at 94. 092, indicating that 95. 1% of the observed heterogeneity observed can be attributed to between-study differences, with only 4.9% resulting from sampling error. As a result, the moderator analysis that followed was deemed justifiable (Borenstein et al., 2021).
3.2. Moderator analysis
Moderator analysis was conducted to investigate whether the variables of interest moderated the impact of gamification on learning outcomes. Table 2 displays the results of the moderator analysis performed on six categorical variables. Five variables (i.e., user type, educational discipline, design principles for educational gamification, duration of “gameful” experience, and learning environment) had a significant moderating effect. In contrast, the moderating effects of the publication type were found to be weak.
Table 2.
Moderator analysis.
Moderator variable	Effect size and 95% confidence interval	Heterogeneity
	k	g	SE	Lower	Upper	Q-value	p
User type
Elementary school user	12	1.293	0.379	0.550	2.035	21.126**	0.000
Secondary school user	29	0.869	0.163	0.550	1.188		
Higher education user	8	0.014	0.141	−0.263	0.291		
Educational discipline
Science	6	3.220	0.799	1.654	4.786	19.052**	0.004
Math	3	2.005	0.930	0.181	3.828		
Engineering/computing	13	0.998	0.246	0.516	1.480		
Social science	16	0.472	0.150	0.179	0.765		
Business	5	0.031	0.591	−1.128	1.189		
Others	1	0.144	0.359	−0.560	0.847		
Not mentioned	5	0.769	0.357	0.070	1.468		
Design principles for educational gamification
Dynamics	1	0.445	0.122	0.070	1.468	19.052**	0.000
Dynamics + Esthetics	1	−3.162	0.322	−1.128	1.189		
Mechanics	15	0.533	0.178	0.516	1.480		
Mechanics + Dynamics	17	0.997	0.202	0.181	3.828		
Mechanics + Dynamics + Esthetics	15	1.285	0.292	−0.560	0.847		
Duration of “gameful” experience
<1 week	5	1.874	0.866	0.176	3.571	15.512**	0.008
1 week–1 month	15	0.621	0.294	0.044	1.198		
1 month–3 months	14	0.519	0.144	0.237	0.801		
3 months–1 semester	6	0.480	0.204	0.080	0.880		
>1 semester	5	3.304	0.794	1.747	4.860		
Not mentioned	4	0.968	0.342	0.298	1.638		
Learning environment
Online	12	0.340	0.241	−0.131	0.812	180.408**	0.000
Hybrid	36	0.863	0.127	0.613	1.112		
Offline	1	35.227	2.591	30.148	40.306		
Measurement of student outcomes						8.416	0.015
Academic performance	30	1.015	0.216	0.592	1.438		
Engagement	16	0.383	0.116	0.155	0.610		
Motivation	3	2.206	1.263	−0.270	4.682		
Publication type							
Journal article	35	0.936	0.185	0.573	1.299	1.841	0.389
Thesis/dissertation	5	0.722	0.234	0.264	1.179		
Conference proceeding	9	0.585	0.182	0.227	0.942		
Open in a new tab
k = number of studies; 95% CI = 95% confidence interval; Q = total variability; **p < 0.01.
3.2.1. User type
Our analysis revealed statistically significant moderation effects for user type (Qbetween = 21.126, p = 0.000). Post-hoc comparisons showed that the effect size of elementary school learners (Hedges’ g = 1.293) was significantly larger than that of secondary school learners (Hedges’ g = 0.014, Qbetween = 10.010, p = 0.002). Similarly, higher education users (Hedges’ g = 0.869) had a significantly higher effect size compared to secondary school users (Hedges’ g = 0.014, Qbetween = 15.757, p = 0.000).
3.2.2. Educational discipline
The variable discipline also had a significant moderating effect. Studies implemented in the subject area of science showed the strongest effect size (Hedges’ g = 3.220), followed by math (Hedges’ g = 2.005), engineering/computing (Hedges’ g = 0.998), social science (Hedges’ g = 0.472), and business (Hedges’ g = 0.031). Pairwise comparisons suggested that the effect size in science was significantly higher than in the subject domain of business (Qbetween = 10.297, p = 0.001), engineering/computing (Qbetween = 7.065, p = 0.008), social science (Qbetween = 11.428, p = 0.001).
3.2.3. Design principles for educational gamification
The moderating role of design principles for educational gamification on the association between gamification and learning outcomes was found to be statistically significant (Qbetween = 19.052, p = 0.004). The effect size of the “dynamics + esthetics” subcategory was negative (Hedges’ g = −3.162), whereas the effect sizes of the other four subcategories were positive. Further post-hoc analysis suggested that the effect size of “dynamics + esthetics” (Hedges’ g = −3.162) was significantly different from those of the other subcategories, with the largest effect size seen in the “mechanics + dynamics + esthetics” subcategory (Hedges’ g = 1.285). Additionally, we found a significant difference in effect size between “dynamics” (Hedges’ g = 0.445) and “dynamics + esthetics + mechanics” (Hedges’ g = 1.285, Qbetween = 7.024, p = 0.008).
3.2.4. Duration of “gameful” experience
Moderation analysis indicated significant differences in the duration of “gameful” experience (Qbetween = 15.512, p = 0.008). Post-hoc analysis revealed that the effect size for the “gameful” experience lasting “> one semester” (Hedges’ g = 3.304) was significantly larger than that of the “gameful” experience lasting “1 month-3 months” (Hedges’ g = 0.519, Qbetween = 11.908, p = 0.001), “1 week-1 month” (Hedges’ g = 0.621, Qbetween = 10.033, p = 0.002), and “3 months-1 semester” (Hedges’ g = 0.480, Qbetween = 11.857, p = 0.001). These results suggest that the “gameful” experience lasting more than one semester has a significantly greater impact on learning outcomes than shorter interventions.
3.2.5. Learning environment
The moderator analysis indicated a significant relationship between the learning environment and the effect of gamification on academic achievement (Qbetween = 180.408, p = 0.000). Post-hoc pairwise comparisons showed that the “offline” condition (Hedges’ g = 35.227) had a statistically significant difference compared to both the “online” (Hedges’ g = 0.340, Qbetween = 179.723, p = 0.000) and “hybrid” (Hedges’ g = 0.863, Qbetween = 175.462, p = 0.000) conditions.
3.2.6. Measurement of student outcomes
Moderation analysis showed no statistically significant differences between the different measures of student outcomes (Hedges’ g = 8.416, p = 0.015). Among the measures examined, motivation had the largest effect size (Hedges’ g = 2.206), followed by academic performance (Hedges’ g = 1.015) and engagement (Hedges’ g = 0.383).
3.2.7. Publication type
Our analysis revealed no significant variation between the different types of publications (Hedges’ g = 1.841, p = 0.389). In fact, the journal article reported the largest effect size (Hedges’ g = 0.936), followed by the thesis/dissertation (Hedges’ g = 0.722) and the conference proceeding (Hedges’ g = 0.585).
3.3. Publication bias
To obtain an accurate measurement of the effect size in a particular field, a meta-analysis must incorporate a sample of studies that is representative of that field. Nevertheless, if a meta-analysis only includes a biased selection, the reported effect size may become distorted. This type of sampling issue is commonly referred to as publication bias.
A funnel plot was utilized to estimate publication bias, which is a widely used method for detecting such bias (Borenstein et al., 2021). The funnel plot in Figure 3 presents a generally symmetrical dispersion around the weighted mean effect sizes. Funnel plots display effect sizes calculated from studies included in a meta-analysis plotted against the standard error (Sterne and Egger, 2001). The horizontal axis represents Hedge’s, with the standard error plotted on the vertical axis. The funnel plot is considered to be symmetrical in the absence of publication bias, but visual inspection is not considered a definitive method (Duval and Tweedie, 2000).
Figure 3.
 
Open in a new tab
Funnel plot of effect size data.
Along with the funnel plot, the fail-safe N test was also performed. The fail-safe N test revealed that a substantial number, 4901, of additional studies would have to be conducted to counterbalance the overall effect size calculated in the current meta-analysis. Since it was unlikely that a substantial number of studies were neglected, together with the results of the funnel plot, we believe that publication bias is unlikely to be an issue in this meta-analytical research.
4. Discussion
Implementing gamification in educational settings can be a complicated endeavor, requiring collaboration and resources from various professionals. Therefore, it is crucial to examine the effectiveness of this instructional approach and understand which design features are effective under different circumstances. The current meta-analysis focused on student learning outcomes in gamification studies to shed light on the effectiveness of gamification and the moderators that improve learning outcomes, contributing to optimizing its use in educational settings.
To achieve this, this meta-analysis had two main objectives: (a) to estimate the overall effect size of gamification on learning outcomes, and (b) to identify factors contributing to variations in the effect sizes across studies through moderator analysis. Our results indicated a large effect size (g = 0.822 [0.567 to 1.078]) for the first objective. This effect size is much higher than that reported in prior research (0.40–0.60) (Bai et al., 2020; Huang et al., 2020; Sailer and Homner, 2020), providing strong evidence to support the use of gamification as an instructional approach in educational contexts.
For the second objective, the moderator analysis has shed light on the potential factors that may impact the magnitude of the effect. Regarding the user types, a significant moderating effect was found (Qbetween = 21.126, p = 0.000), suggesting the effectiveness of gamification on student achievement varies across user types. Primary school users yielded a significantly larger effect size than secondary school users (Qbetween = 10.010, p = 0.002). One possible reason could be related to differences in their motivation levels. Primary school learners may be more intrinsically motivated to learn (Vygotsky, 2016), and less focused on external rewards, which could enhance their engagement with gamification activities and lead to better academic achievement. In contrast, secondary learners may be more extrinsically motivated, and more focused on grades, which could limit their engagement with gamification activities and thus contribute to a lower effect size. Another possible explanation is that primary school users may have fewer preconceptions about traditional teaching methods and be more open to alternative approaches (e.g., gamified approaches) learning (Murillo and Martinez-Garrido, 2014). Furthermore, users at the higher education level exhibited a significantly larger effect size than secondary school users (Qbetween = 15.757, p = 0.000). This difference could be attributed to their higher intrinsic motivation to learn, which gamification activities can sustain over the long term. Another possible explanation concerns the greater familiarity of higher education users with technology and digital tools (Kim and Castelli, 2021), which makes them more receptive to gamified learning activities that incorporate these resources. This familiarity can also make it easier for them to engage with the various features and functions of gamified learning activities, which may be more complex or multifaceted than those used in secondary school contexts.
The educational discipline in which gamification is applied significantly impacts its effectiveness in promoting student achievement. Science showed the strongest effect size, followed by math, engineering/computing, social science, and business, with significant differences identified between science and business (Qbetween = 10.297, p = 0.001), engineering/computing (Qbetween = 7.065, p = 0.008), and social science (Qbetween = 11.428, p = 0.001). These results are consistent with previous studies that have demonstrated the effectiveness of gamification in science education (Kapp, 2012; Chen et al., 2018). Several potential factors may contribute to the variation across different subject disciplines. One possible reason is the nature of the subject matter. Science education is generally known to involve complex concepts and problem-solving tasks that may be more challenging for students to grasp (Hmelo-Silver, 2004), making gamification an effective way to increase engagement and motivation. In addition, hands-on learning opportunities in science education may lend themselves well to gamification activities. Pedagogical approaches may also play a part, with inquiry-based and problem-based learning commonly used in science education aligning well with gamified learning (Lai and Bower, 2020). In contrast, business education may be more lecture-based and centered on theoretical knowledge (Carriger, 2015), making it less suitable for gamified learning approaches that rely on exploration and experimentation. These findings may have practical implications for instructional designers and educators, who should consider the subject discipline when designing and utilizing gamification in educational contexts.
The current meta-analysis provides evidence that design principles for educational gamification can be effective for improved learning outcomes in educational contexts. However, the effectiveness of gamification seems to be contingent on the particular design principle. The highest effect size (Hedges’ g = 1.285) was seen in the “mechanics + dynamics + esthetics” subcategory, suggesting that combining three may be the most effective design principle for promoting gamified learning outcomes. The possible reason for this could be that such a combination offers a well-rounded approach that caters to both the measurable and intangible aspects of the gaming experience while also addressing subjective factors. Mechanics are defined as the quantifiable components of the game (e.g., rewards, prizes, points, and rankings). These elements are concrete and can be easily measured and tracked. Dynamics, on the other hand, designates to the behavior of the game mechanics over time and how they interact with each other and with the player (Hakulinen et al., 2013). Dynamics are the intangible aspects of the game that can create a unique experience for each player (e.g., events, tasks, feedback, and competition) (Hakulinen et al., 2013). Esthetics are the emotional responses that players experience when engaging with the game system, which may encompass elements of sensations, narrative, companionship, expression, or entertainment (Hakulinen et al., 2013). Our finding aligns with the MDA framework, which underscores the significance of the cohesive interplay between all three components in generating successful learning outcomes. This may be due to the clear goals and feedback provided by mechanics, as well as the engaging and immersive experience created by esthetics. Moreover, the observed difference in effect size between the combination of three and “dynamics” suggests that including mechanics and esthetics in gamified design may result in better learning outcomes. This could be attributed to mechanics offering explicit goals and feedback for the player, while esthetics contributes to a captivating and immersive game experience. Conversely, the combination of dynamics and esthetics alone may hinder the effectiveness of gamification concerning the identified negative effect size (Hedges’ g = −3.162). The possible explanations for this adverse effect size may pertain to the working mechanism of the MDA framework (Hakulinen et al., 2013). From the designers’ perspective, the MDA framework suggests that game mechanics should be established before moving on to dynamics and esthetics. This sequence guarantees that the structure of game elements is grounded in rules and systems before attending to the subjective aspects of player experience. Therefore, the negative effect size of “dynamics + esthetics” could be ascribed to the lack of clear goals and feedback provided by the mechanics, resulting in reduced learning outcomes. On the other hand, from the users’ perspective, esthetics may be the first aspect of the gamified learning they encounter, followed by dynamics and then mechanics. This sequence implies that learners may prioritize the experiential aspects of the game elements (e.g., immersion, engagement) over the more concrete elements (e.g., goals, feedback). Thus, if the mechanics fail to captivate the learners, they might not be motivated to persist in playing and learning, leading to a negative effect size for “dynamics + esthetics.”
The duration of “gameful” experience was revealed to be a significant moderator (Qbetween = 15.512, p = 0.008). The duration of “gameful” experience lasting “>1 semester” were found to have a significantly larger effect size than gamified interventions lasting “1 month-3 months,” “1 week-1 month,” and “3 months-1 semester”. The findings add to the existing literature (Beemer et al., 2019; Sailer and Homner, 2020) on the duration of “gameful” experience, highlighting the importance of longer-term interventions in enhancing learning outcomes. Several potential causes may contribute to these findings. First, longer “gameful” experiences may give students more time to consolidate their learning, leading to higher retention of knowledge and improved learning outcomes. Moreover, prolonged exposure to the game mechanics in longer interventions may promote a deeper understanding of the learning content. As learners become more proficient with the game mechanics, they may be more capable of concentrating on the learning material and achieving better performance. Another possible explanation for the larger effect size observed in longer “gameful” experiences is that they allow learners to explore diverse strategies and techniques for navigating the game mechanics. With more time devoted to practice, learners may be able to more effectively apply their knowledge to different situations, resulting in improved learning outcomes. It is worth noting that the “gameful” experience lasting “<1 week” did not have a statistically significant effect size compared to other types. However, it still had a larger effect size than interventions lasting “1 month-3 months,” “1 week-1 month,” and “3 months-1 semester.” This finding may be ascribed to the phenomenon of hyperbolic discounting, which refers to people’s cognitive tendency to prefer short-term rewards over long-term rewards (Ainslie, 1975; Standage et al., 2005; Kim and Castelli, 2021).
Regarding the learning environment, our analysis revealed statistically significant moderation effects (Qbetween = 180.408, p = 0.000), indicating its importance in the effectiveness of gamification in educational settings. The offline learning environment was found to have a significantly greater effect size compared to both online and hybrid learning environments. Three explanations may account for this unexpected outcome. The first one pertains to tangible learning experiences. Offline learning environments may offer more hands-on or tangible learning experiences (e.g., awarding real gifts or badges), which can better engage and motivate learners and improve their performance (Çakıroğlu et al., 2017). Second, personalized feedback may play a role. The “offline” condition may offer more opportunities for learners to receive personalized feedback and guidance from instructors. At the same time, digital learning environments may provide only automated feedback without a detailed explanation, often not tailored to individual needs. According to Ebadi et al. (2021), technical delays and the high pace of the game are among the most frequently reported issues in digital learning, which may lead to learner demotivation and poor performance. Third, social interaction may possibly contribute to the variation. Offline learning environments allow for more face-to-face interaction and collaboration among learners, leading to improved learning outcomes. Online education, on the other hand, may leave students feeling isolated from instructors and peers, which can hinder their learning achievement (Manner, 2003). In addition, online support groups are continuously open to new membership and may experience fluctuations in membership, making it difficult for them to engage in effective group work and ultimately leading to lower performance (Gary and Remolino, 2000). Therefore, it is essential for educators or instructors to carefully design the learning environment to maximize the effectiveness of gamification in promoting academic achievement.
In relation to the measurement of student outcomes, no significant moderating effect was observed (Qbetween = 8.416, p = 0.015). This implies that the effectiveness of gamification in educational settings remains consistent across different measures employed to assess student outcomes. However, there were variances in effect sizes observed among these measures. Among them, motivation showed the largest effect size (Hedges’ g = 2.206). There are several potential reasons that could account for this finding. Firstly, gamification has the capacity to create an environment that allows for diverse and divergent thinking, leading to the exchange of multiple perspectives among students. Such an environment promotes collective learning and collaboration, thereby enhancing intrinsic motivation (Stansbury and Earnest, 2016). Secondly, the social aspect of gamified environments can also contribute to increased motivation. Many gamifications incorporate elements of competition and collaboration, allowing students to compete against each other or work together towards a common goal. This social interaction and sense of community can foster a sense of belonging and purpose, which are essential drivers of motivation (Buckley and Doyle, 2016; Koivisto and Hamari, 2019). Furthermore, the use of game elements in gamified environments also serves as a motivational affordance, simulating learners’ learning behavior (Inocencio, 2018). By incorporating game mechanics into the educational experience, gamification may tap into individuals’ intrinsic motivation to achieve goals and overcome challenges (Manzano-León et al., 2021). These elements create a sense of accomplishment and progress, which can be highly motivating for students. On the other hand, the weakest effect size was observed for engagement (Hedges’ g = 0.383), potentially due to learners’ perceived value of education. González-Fernández et al. (2022) suggested that learners’ behavioral engagement can be influenced by the importance they attach to their education. If gamification elements fail to address and encourage these factors sufficiently, it can negatively impact the observed levels of engagement. Therefore, game elements should be carefully designed to promote positive engagement and tailored to users’ needs and preferences, underscoring the necessity for more rigorous primary study designs to effectively mitigate alternative explanations for variations in learning outcomes across varying conditions (Sailer and Homner, 2020).
Concerning publication type, no significant moderating effect was observed (Qbetween = 1.841, p = 0.389). However, we observed variations in effect size across different kinds of publications. Specifically, journal articles had the largest effect size (Hedges’ g = 0.936), followed by theses/dissertations (Hedges’ g = 0.722), and conference proceedings had the smallest effect size (Hedges’ g = 0.585). While these differences were not statistically significant, they may be indicative of underlying factors that influenced the effectiveness of gamification in different types of studies. One possible explanation for the observed differences in effect size is that certain types of publications may be more likely to include rigorous research designs and methods, which could lead to larger effect sizes. For example, journal articles typically undergo a rigorous peer-review process and are held to high standards of research quality and validity. The findings may suggest that the quality and rigor of the research may play a role in determining the effectiveness of gamification in educational contexts. Besides, further research is needed to fully understand the factors that influence the effectiveness of gamification in different types of publications.
5. Limitations
There are several limitations to be considered in this research. Firstly, it is important to acknowledge the possibility of variability in the quality and reliability of the included studies. Despite extensive efforts to adhere to stringent inclusion criteria and methodological rigor, inherent disparities within the study design or sample sizes among the selected studies may persist. These variations could have the potential to introduce heterogeneity into the analysis and may possibly affect the generalizability of results to some extent. Nonetheless, we made a concerted effort to carefully consider and address these potential variations in study characteristics within the scope of this research.
Additionally, this study investigated the moderating effect of several important variables based on a comprehensive review of the literature. However, given the relative novelty and rapid evolution of the field of gamification, we also identified additional emerging variables that could potentially impact gamification research and represent valuable avenues for further investigation. These variables include player characteristics (Van Berlo et al., 2023), the role of user experience (Anim et al., 2023), reliability of outcome measures (Inocencio, 2018), teaching role of the family (Gözüm and Kandır, 2020, 2021; Papadakis et al., 2022). Unfortunately, despite thoroughly examining and coding variables from the identified studies, we encountered challenges in obtaining sufficient data that met the necessary inclusion and exclusion criteria. Consequently, we were unable to include these variables in our analysis. It is our hope that future empirical investigations in related areas will consider yielding the requisite data to enable their incorporation into future meta-analyses.
6. Conclusion and implications
This study has produced valuable findings regarding the impact of gamification on student learning outcomes, which may contribute to advancing our knowledge of its potential in educational contexts. First, our study revealed a significant overall effect size of 0.822 [0.567 to 1.078] for gamification on student learning outcomes, implying that gamification may hold promise as a viable approach for promoting teaching and learning in diverse educational contexts. Second, we discovered that several factors had a moderating impact, including the user type (e.g., primary school users demonstrated the greatest effect size), educational discipline (e.g., science students exhibited a considerably higher effect size than those in the disciplines of business, engineering/computing, and social science), design principles for educational gamification (e.g., the largest effect size observed in the design principle of “mechanics + dynamics + esthetics”), duration of “gameful” experience (e.g., the gamified interventions lasting more than one semester showed the greatest impact), and learning environment (e.g., the “offline” condition produced the largest effect size). These findings aid researchers in pinpointing the variables that impact gamification’s effectiveness in improving learning outcomes. We expect these results will encourage greater interest in gamification research and more inquiry into its potential for enhancing teaching and learning in educational contexts.
The findings of this study provide significant insights into the use of gamification to enhance student learning outcomes. Based on the results, the following recommendations are proposed to optimize the effectiveness of gamification in educational contexts:
	The “gameful” experience should last more than one semester to produce significant gains in educational outcomes.
	Consideration should be given to the design principles for educational gamification as certain types of design principles have been found to be more effective than others. Specifically, the “mechanics + dynamics + esthetics” sub-category had the largest effect size and is highly recommended. However, the “dynamics + esthetics” subcategory had a negative effect size and should be avoided in the design and implementation of gamification.
	The educational discipline in which gamification is implemented should also be considered. Studies implemented in the subject area of science showed the strongest effect size.
	The learning environment in which gamification is implemented can also have a significant impact on academic achievement. The offline condition had the largest effect size compared to the online and hybrid conditions. However, as a limited number of empirical studies included in this analysis examined the offline learning environment, further research is recommended to confirm our findings.
	The user type of the students should also be considered. Elementary and higher education users had a significantly higher effect size compared to secondary school users. Therefore, it is advisable to consider the appropriateness of gamification for users of different educational levels carefully and to tailor its design and implementation accordingly.
	While the measurement of student outcomes did not yield any significant differences, motivation was found to have the largest effect size, while engagement had the least. To optimize gamification in education, it is suggested to focus on motivation by integrating features that boost intrinsic motivation, foster collaboration, and stimulate healthy competition. It is crucial to tailor game elements to suit the learners’ individual needs and preferences, ensuring their engagement. To achieve dependable and valid assessments of learning outcomes, a rigorous study design must be implemented.
	Lastly, while there were no significant differences between types of publications, journal articles reported the largest effect size. These variations in effect size across different types of publications may suggest that the quality and rigor of the research design and methods play a crucial role in determining the effectiveness of gamification in educational contexts. Therefore, it is recommended to employ rigorous research designs and methods to ensure high research quality and validity.

Abstract
Gamification, characterized by the integration of game design elements into non-game environments, has gained popularity in classrooms due to its potential for increased engagement and enjoyment compared to traditional lecture-based teaching methods. While students generally exhibit positive attitudes towards gamification, its impact on academic achievement remains a subject of debate. This study employed a meta-analysis approach to examine the overall influence of gamification on students' academic performance. The sample comprised 22 experimental studies conducted between 2008 and 2023, comparing the effects of gamified and non-gamified classes. Utilizing a random effects model, the results revealed a moderately positive effect of gamification on student academic performance (Hedges's g = 0.782, p < 0.05). The paper further discussed the outcomes of various moderator analyses, providing valuable insights into the selection and utilization of game design elements, as well as considerations specific to different educational stages.
Practitioner notes
What is already known about this topic
	Most research has consistently demonstrated that gamification has a positive impact on students' achievement.
	The current state of review research is not sufficiently comprehensive.
	There is a lack of meta-analyses exploring the diverse impacts of gamification.
What this paper adds
	The effect of factors such as geographical regions, education levels, learning environments, subjects and game elements on gamification was examined.
	The study revealed a significant and positive impact of gamification on students' achievement across various factors, including geographical regions, education levels, learning environments, subjects and game elements.
Implications for practice and/or policy
	Gamification represents a prudent choice for teachers seeking to enhance students' achievement.
	Teachers are suggested to adopt and employ appropriate game elements in their instructional approaches.
	Future research could focus on investigating the impact of feedback as a game element in teaching and learning.
INTRODUCTION
In recent years, the integration of e-learning platforms has become increasingly prevalent in educational institutions, acting as a modern complement or alternative to traditional teaching methods (Górska, 2016). The onset of the Covid-19 crisis has accelerated this shift, prompting higher education institutions to swiftly transition from face-to-face to online teaching to sustain student learning (Khaldi et al., 2023). Beyond the pandemic, the influence of e-learning endures, leading to broader adoption of online blended formats for university course instruction (Cobo-Rendón et al., 2022). However, the digital learning environment poses challenges, with students often experiencing reduced motivation and diminished engagement, resulting in decreased course participation due to distractions from external factors such as social media or household responsibilities (Barrot et al., 2021; Chiu et al., 2021; Suriagiri et al., 2022). Concurrently, educators grapple with maintaining learners' attention, potentially leading to disengagement from online learning (Denden et al., 2021). Moreover, students exhibit diverse learning styles and paces, posing a challenge for educators to meet individual needs and provide effective feedback (Tikhonova et al., 2022; Torres Martín et al., 2021).
Gamification, as a student-centred teaching method, holds promise in cultivating students' motivation and problem-solving abilities, providing a practical solution within the teaching process. Empirical research in higher education contexts supports gamification's positive impact on motivational outcomes, indicating that game design elements contribute to fulfilling competence and relatedness needs (Subhash & Cudney, 2018). Grounded in the self-determination theoretical framework, gamification is believed to foster intrinsic motivation while satisfying the needs for competence and social bonding Ryan et al., 2006). Specifically, by optimizing the learning process and enhancing learning outcomes, gamification plays a vital role in sustaining students' engagement and other dimensions of their learning experience (Toda et al., 2019), foster learning persistence, facilitate communication (Zhao et al., 2022) and cultivate higher-order thinking skills among learners (Cheng et al., 2023).
Researchers have investigated the fusion of games with fields such as healthcare (Martinho et al., 2020), training, transportation and education (Hursen & Bas, 2019), yielding remarkable findings in academic achievement and skills development (De Freitas, 2018). A notable application has been the convergence of education and gaming, giving rise to terms like educational games, serious games and gamified learning (Kirchner-Krath et al., 2021). All these terms share the objective of enabling students to learn through gameplay by incorporating game elements or features that stimulate their interest (Ibanez et al., 2014) and immerse them in the learning experience (Tsay et al., 2018). The existing body of literature on gamification encompasses diverse perspectives and objectives, offering valuable insights into its impact on achievement. However, integrating these multidisciplinary findings and discussing them within a unified framework poses a significant challenge. Traditional literature reviews have been utilized in previous research to classify existing studies and provide an overview of the research landscape (Oliveira et al., 2023). Nevertheless, they often lack comprehensive integration and innovative analysis of the research outcomes (Riar et al., 2022).
To bridge the identified gap, this study employs a meta-analytical review approach, an emerging methodology, to amalgamate and synthesize current research findings on gamification, aiming to deliver a comprehensive and innovative analysis of the research in gamification. Through this approach, the study seeks to generate new knowledge and enrich our understanding of the implications of gamification in education.
LITERATURE REVIEW
The definition of gamification
The concept of gamification, which involves using game elements to engage and motivate individuals, was first mentioned in a 2002 paper by Nick Pelling titled ‘The Chemistry of Game Design’ (Hebebci & Selahattin, 2021). However, it was not until 2008 that the term ‘gamification’ was coined by Bret Terrill and gained widespread recognition in academia and industry (Terrill, 2008). Since then, gamification has increasingly been recognized as a powerful tool to motivate individuals in various contexts, including education, health and the workplace (Chapman et al., 2023). Gamification utilizes game elements to enhance user engagement, productivity and enjoyment (Deterding et al., 2011; Petrovych et al., 2023). By tapping into individuals' intrinsic desires for competition, achievement, recognition and self-expression, gamification has become a popular strategy for organizations worldwide. Many organizations are now adopting gaming technology and implementing playful rewards to motivate both employees and customers.
Gamification involves applying game elements to non-game activities, creating an immersive and interactive experience. It should be distinguished from game-based learning (GBL), which integrates complete, pre-designed games into the learning journey to provide a comprehensive teaching approach for subjects or specific modules (Dichev & Dicheva, 2017). While GBL utilizes complete gameplay, gamification applies game elements to non-game contexts. It is also important to note that gamification is different from learning-based games, as it encompasses the entire learning process transformed into a game-like experience (Kirchner-Krath et al., 2021). Importantly, gamification does not replace the learning process but rather enhances it by fostering active participation and encouraging learners to overcome challenges over time.
Furthermore, it is important to note that serious games constitute a subset of games specifically designed for purposes beyond pure entertainment (Cowan & Kapralos, 2017). Serious games have broad applicability for addressing diverse problems or objectives due to their customizable nature (Landers, 2014). It is crucial to distinguish between game-based learning and serious games. Game-based learning refers to a learning methodology, whereas a serious game is a tangible product that facilitates game-based learning (Becker, 2021). The definitions of serious games provide additional insights. According to game designers Michael and Chen (2005), a game's primary purpose extends beyond mere entertainment. Zyda (2005) offers a more precise definition, describing serious games as ‘psychological competitions following specific rules, using entertainment to advance objectives in government, corporate training, education, health, public policy and strategic communication’.
Through the application of gamification, learning becomes a more immersive and engaging activity, inspiring individuals to overcome learning obstacles with dedication. By leveraging game elements, organizations can tap into individuals' intrinsic motivations, creating a more enjoyable and effective learning experience.
Relevant studies of gamification in education
Numerous empirical studies have explored the integration of gamification in education, consistently revealing its positive influence on learning outcomes. For instance, Gari et al. (2018) demonstrated a significant enhancement in student learning and engagement in computer science courses through gamification, surpassing traditional instructional formats (Landers, 2014). Similarly, Ortiz Rojas et al. (2017) observed heightened engagement among students learning programming through gamified approaches. However, conflicting findings have emerged regarding the effectiveness of gamification in educational contexts. Instances where gamification did not lead to improvements in student performance were highlighted by Almeida et al. (2023) and Koivisto and Hamari (2019). Zainuddin et al. (2020) even identified potential negative effects on motivation and engagement .
In response to the variability in outcomes, scholars have conducted systematic literature reviews and meta-analyses to establish more reliable conclusions. Bai (2019) focused on computer science, information science and engineering education, confirming gamification's positive impact within these domains. Zhan et al. (2022) emphasized the greater efficacy of gamification in text-based programming over graphical programming. Li's (2023) meta-analytic study compared gamification effects across disciplinary categories, revealing a stronger impact on science and technology disciplines than on liberal arts disciplines. Sailer and Homner's (2020) systematic synthesis demonstrated that empirical studies support gamification as an effective instructional method, particularly in enhancing behavioural learning outcomes, encompassing technical skills, motor skills or competencies. However, a common limitation observed in other studies, such as Yıldırım and Şen (2021), is the lack of specification regarding the methods used to measure learning outcomes.
In comparison with Kim and Castelli's (2021) study, the present research refined experimental subject categorization by distinguishing between elementary school, middle school, high school and university levels. Another study by Huang et al. (2020) focused on students' learning outcomes, reporting a small to medium effect size (g = 0.464) on clearly defined cognitive, affective and behavioural measures. However, like other studies, it did not specify the measurement methods for learning outcomes.
These studies underscore the need for comprehensive examinations of gamification's impact on education, considering different subject areas and instructional contexts. Synthesizing and analysing findings across disciplines can contribute to a more nuanced understanding of the effects of gamification on student learning. The research gap lies in the inconsistent methodologies used to measure learning outcomes in existing studies, warranting further exploration for a more comprehensive understanding of gamification's impact.
Review studies of gamification in education
A systematic review study conducted by Dicheva et al. (2015) provides a comprehensive overview of the existing literature on the use of gamification in education. The study analysed 173 articles published between 2010 and 2014 and categorized them based on educational context, gamification techniques, target learners and learning outcomes. The findings revealed a focus on higher education and STEM subjects, with points, badges and leaderboards being the most commonly employed gamification techniques. However, the study also identified gaps in the literature, such as a lack of research in K-12 education and non-STEM disciplines, highlighting the need for more rigorous empirical studies on the effects of gamification in education. Further evidence supporting the positive impact of gamification on student engagement, motivation, self-confidence, attitude, perceived learning and performance comes from the work of Subhash and Cudney (2018). Their findings were aligned with the use of game elements such as points, badges, leaderboards, levels, feedback and graphics in higher education settings. Moreover, gamification has been shown to enhance critical thinking and problem-solving skills, as students apply newly acquired concepts through integrated learning approaches (Yasin & Abbas, 2021).
In science education, a systematic review by Kalogiannakis et al. (2021) confirmed the effectiveness of gamification in increasing student motivation, engagement and learning outcomes. The authors emphasized the importance of aligning the design of gamification elements with learning objectives and learner characteristics while also advocating for more empirical research on the long-term effects of gamification in this domain.
A meta-analysis conducted by Nadi-Ravandi and Batooli (2022) examined the impact of gamification on student academic performance across various educational settings. Analysing 53 meta-analyses and systematic reviews published between 2010 and 2020, the study found a moderate to strong positive effect of gamification on academic achievement. Factors such as the type and level of gamification, intervention duration and student demographics were identified as potential influences on the effectiveness of gamification. In the context of programming education, a meta-analysis by Zhan et al. (2022) synthesized data from 22 studies and concluded that gamification significantly enhances students' programming performance. The study highlighted the effectiveness of gamified learning, longer intervention durations and Asian-based studies. Additionally, the findings indicated that the impact of gamification was consistent across different assessment types and age groups.
Collectively, these studies support the notion that gamification can have a positive impact on learning outcomes, motivation, engagement and other relevant factors in education. Considering various factors, such as the specific gamification techniques employed, learner characteristics, subject areas and intervention durations, can further optimize the effectiveness of gamification strategies.
RESEARCH PURPOSE AND QUESTIONS
By considering various perspectives and influencing factors, the study aimed to address the inconsistencies present in the current empirical research on the effectiveness of gamification. In addition, this study seeks to provide a systematic review and analysis of the existing literature, synthesizing the findings to offer a more comprehensive understanding of the impact of gamification on academic performance. This study mainly answered the following questions:
	Does gamification have a positive effect on academic performance?
	Does the effect of gamification differ in different geographical regions?
	Does the effect of gamification differ in different learning environments?
	Does the effect of gamification differ among different levels of education?
	Does the effect of gamification differ when using different game elements?
	Does the effect of gamification differ in different subjects?
METHODS
This review study combines the use of systematic literature review and meta-analysis to conduct a comprehensive analysis. The systematic literature reviews adhere to a scientific and rigorous methodology, employing a clear and replicable research process, making them an essential approach in educational research (Xiao & Watson, 2019). By focusing on the ‘literature’ as the research object and employing a pre-defined coding list, systematic literature reviews ensure reliability and objectivity through comprehensive search strategies and strict screening processes. The meta-analysis, as a systematic data aggregation technique, integrates and reanalyses the results of multiple independent studies on the same research topic (Waddington et al., 2012). Calculating a combined effect size enables the exploration of inconsistent findings and the estimation of the true correlation between variables (Bearman et al., 2012). In this study, meta-analysis is predominantly used to investigate the impact of gamification on learning outcomes. The systematic procedures for the search, identification, screening, coding and extraction of publications are detailed in the following sections.
Article search strategy
In this study, a set of search databases was carefully selected based on their performance and relevance in the fields of information science, computer science and education. ACM Digital Library, IEEE Xplore, ScienceDirect, Wiley Online Library, Scopus and Web of Science were chosen due to their recognized strength in these areas (Cavacini, 2015). Additionally, we conducted a systematic literature search across two academic databases, ProQuest and Taylor & Francis Online, as they have been recommended in the field of education research (Snyder & Snyder, 2008). This approach ensured a comprehensive coverage of relevant publications for inclusion in the study, considering that gamification has been applied in various fields for educational purposes.
To construct effective search queries, we utilized Boolean search strings that combined specific terms related to gamification, education, students and effects. The gamification-related terms included ‘gamification’, ‘gamify’, ‘gamified’ and ‘gamifying’. For education, we used terms such as ‘assessing’, ‘assessment’, ‘impact’, ‘effect’, ‘evaluating’, ‘evaluation’, ‘comparison’, ‘influencing’, ‘enhancing’, ‘outcome’, ‘result’ and ‘influence’. The term ‘student’ was covered by including variations such as ‘learner’, ‘user’ and ‘participant’. Lastly, we focused on the effects of gamification by incorporating terms like ‘learning’, ‘comprehension’, ‘satisfaction’, ‘motivation’, ‘achievement’, ‘performance’, ‘understanding’, ‘perception’, ‘efficacy’, ‘self-efficacy’, ‘confidence’ and ‘expectancy’. It's worth noting that the wildcard character ‘*’ was not used in search terms to ensure compatibility with all databases, as some may not accept it.
Inclusion and exclusion criteria
Inclusion criteria
The following inclusion criteria were applied in this study:
	Non-literary domain focus: The study should primarily focus on non-literary domains, specifically information science and computer science.
	Timeframe: The literature search encompassed studies published from 2008 to the present 2023.
	Educational context: The study explicitly targeted students across different educational levels in formal education settings.
	Comparative approach: The study should compare gamification with non-gamification class (traditional class), using a between-subjects design.
	Research design: The study should employ a quasi-experimental or experimental research design.
	Learning outcomes: The primary focus of the study should be on student learning outcomes, particularly test scores.
	Language: The study must be written in English.
Exclusion criteria
The following exclusion criteria were applied in this study:
	Data measured by scores: Only studies that measured data through scores were included. This criterion was used to ensure consistency in the measurement of academic achievement. Consequently, studies that utilized partial experiments classifying students were excluded (Kam & Umar, 2022).
	Retrospective studies: Retrospective studies were excluded from the analysis due to their inherent limitations in controlling variables and potential issues regarding the reliability of results.
	Indirect effects of gamification: The focus of this paper was on exploring the direct effects of gamification on academic achievement. Therefore, empirical studies that primarily investigated the indirect effects of gamification, such as examining the impact of gamification on classroom engagement and subsequently linking engagement to academic performance through regression analysis, were excluded (Cakiroglu et al., 2016).
Figure 1 shows a PRISMA flowchart illustrating the search process, identification, screening, coding and extraction steps, following the guidelines outlined by Moher et al. (2009).
 
FIGURE 1
Open in figure viewerPowerPoint
PRISMA flowchart of the article selection process.
Coding methods
In order to improve the reliability of the study's conclusions, subgroup analysis was conducted to account for the high heterogeneity present in the data. Subgroup analysis, also known as moderating variable analysis, allows for a more comprehensive examination of the research findings. In this study, contextual factors were considered as the basis for defining subgroups (Borenstein et al., 2009). These factors include the region, subject, education level, learning environment, experimental cycle and application of game elements. By analysing the impact of gamification within different contextual settings, a more nuanced understanding of its effects can be obtained. Finally, this study conducted a subgroup analysis based on five variables: region, subject, education level, learning environment and application of game elements.
In this study, the geographical regions comprised four categories based on the location of the experimental subjects. Regional disparities encompass diverse cultural backgrounds, educational values and teaching systems, all of which can potentially influence the effectiveness of gamification on academic performance. Different subjects exhibit distinct learning requirements, varying content difficulty levels and differing levels of student motivation, which may result in varied responses to gamification strategies (Yang et al., 2020). By examining the impact of gamification in various subject areas, researchers can uncover valuable insights into the optimal implementation of gamification strategies in different educational contexts. The education level encompasses elementary school, middle school, high school and undergraduate levels. The choice of educational level as a moderator factor is rooted in the understanding that different educational levels possess distinct needs, expectations and abilities, necessitating diverse game design strategies and mechanics (Nadi-Ravandi & Batooli, 2022; Ritzhaupt et al., 2021; Wu et al., 2021). The mode of instruction, whether online or face-to-face, may interact with gamification in distinct ways. By examining the effects of gamification in different learning environments, researchers can enhance their understanding of how to effectively integrate gamification into various teaching contexts (Lim et al., 2021).
The selection and design of game mechanics in gamification applications depend on the specific context and objectives of the system (Subhash & Cudney, 2018). Several game elements are commonly utilized in gamification, including feedback, leaderboards, points, badges, challenges and immediate responses (Kirchner-Krath et al., 2021). In this study, the following game elements were identified and categorized according to related literature (Deterding et al., 2011; Hellín et al., 2023):
	Points: Points serve as a fundamental component of gamification. Students earn points upon successfully completing tasks or reaching milestones, reinforcing their progress and achievements.
	Badges: Badges are earned spontaneously after a certain period or upon accomplishing specific goals. The opportunity to collect badges and exchange them for rewards serves as a powerful motivator for students.
	Leaderboards: Leaderboards provide visual representations of individuals' achievements, enabling players to assess their performance and compare themselves to others. Leaderboards can be absolute, displaying rankings of top performers or relative, customized for each player and showing their position relative to a selected group of peers.
	Challenges: Challenges or tasks represent engaging and attainable objectives within the gamification framework. By presenting students with challenging yet achievable tasks, challenges serve as strong motivators for learning.
	Feedback: Immediate feedback/response is a crucial aspect of gamification. Students receive instant feedback that highlights their mistakes or areas for improvement, allowing them to make immediate corrections and enhance their learning experience.
By understanding the different game elements and their roles in gamification, educators and designers can make informed decisions when implementing gamified systems. The careful selection and integration of game mechanics can enhance student engagement, motivation and overall learning experience.
Data analysis
Heterogeneity
All reported p-values were two-tailed, and the t-test was used to assess heterogeneity. Despite having strict inclusion and exclusion criteria during the literature screening stage, ensuring the consistency of the included studies can be challenging. Therefore, it is important to conduct a heterogeneity test for each study before calculating the combined effect size. The results of the heterogeneity test served as a basis for model selection and fitness analysis. In this study, forest plots and Q-tests were employed to assess heterogeneity (Stogiannis et al., 2023).
Effect size
To account for variations across different study implementations, we employed a random effects model to calculate effect sizes (Raudenbush, 2009). The reported effect size used in this study was Hedges's g, which represents the adjusted standardized mean difference between the two groups. This measure is particularly suitable for meta-analyses involving studies with varying sample sizes (Korpershoek et al., 2016). To ensure independence assumptions were met, effect sizes were calculated for each study based on independent samples of students. When a study reported multiple assessments for a single subject, we followed the recommendation of Freeman et al. (2014) and selected the most comprehensive assessment, such as the final exam, over other assessments. If a study reported multiple assessments at different time points (eg, Time 1, Time 2, …), or multiple tests without providing the most comprehensive assessment of overall results for the same group of participants, we used the Integrated Meta-Analysis software to calculate a single combined mean effect size.
For this study, the dependent variable ‘student achievement’ was treated as a continuous variable, and two types of data extraction were conducted: (a) mean, standard deviation and sample size for two-group control studies, and (b) mean, t-value and sample size for single-group pre/post-test studies. It has been observed that Cohen's d exhibits positive bias, resulting in a biased estimation (especially with small samples, where the error is greater). To address this, Hedges's g value was introduced as a correction factor (Borenstein et al., 2009). The calculation of Hedges's g is as follows, based on the mean, standard deviation and sample size (Hedges, 1981):
𝑠𝑝=√(𝑛1−1)⁢𝑠21+(𝑛2−1)⁢𝑠22(𝑛1−1)+(𝑛2−1)
𝑔=̅𝑦1−̅𝑦2𝑠𝑝
where denotes the mean of the experimental group, denotes the mean of the control group, 𝑆𝑝 denotes the combined standard difference, 𝑛1 is the sample size of the experimental group, 𝑛2 is the sample size of the control group, 𝑠1 is the standard deviation of the experimental group and 𝑠2 is the standard deviation of the control group.
Publication bias
As meta-analysis involves secondary analysis of existing studies, it is crucial to examine publication bias before conducting specific analyses to ensure the reliability of the results. Publication bias is an inherent issue in the meta-analysis, referring to the tendency of statistically significant studies to have a higher likelihood of being accepted and published compared to statistically insignificant studies (Spector & Thompson, 1991). In this study, we utilized comprehensive meta-analysis (CMA) to analyse publication bias, funnel plots, trim-and-fill analysis, rank correlation and linear regression were employed to assess potential bias in the included literature. The funnel plot is the most intuitive detection method, which judges whether there is bias by observing the distribution of the effect size included in the study on both sides of the centreline.
RESULTS
Distribution of the empirical studies
Despite the slight impact of Covid-19, research in this field is generally experiencing an upward trend, as depicted in Figure 2. In recent years, there has been significant growth in gamification research. This is primarily due to the expanding popularity and wide-ranging applications of gamification. Scholars and researchers are increasingly recognizing the potential value of gamification in enhancing people's behaviour, improving efficiency and fostering motivation for participation. Gamification remains a prominent and relevant topic in contemporary discussions.
 
FIGURE 2
Open in figure viewerPowerPoint
Number of publications per year.
Description of the effect of gamification on students' achievement
Table 1 presents an overview of the selected articles concerning authors, the publication year, education level, subject, learning environment, gamification element(s) and region.
TABLE 1. Description of the use of gamification.
Authors (year)	Educational level	Subject	Learning environment	Gamification element	Region
Agapito and Rodrigo (2018)
Elementary	CS	Offline	Points+Badges+Leaderboard	Asia
Al Khateeb (2019)
Undergraduate	CS	Offline	Points+Badges+Feedback	Asia
Aljraiwi (2019)
Elementary	Science	Offline	None	Asia
Alsadoon et al. (2022)
Elementary	Language	Offline	Points+Badges+Leaderboard	Asia
Al-sulami (2022)
Undergraduate	Management	Offline	Points+Badges+Leaderboard	Asia
Carrasco-Hernández et al. (2020)
Undergraduate	CS	Blended	Level+Points+Badges	Europe
De-Marcos et al. (2014)
Undergraduate	CS	Offline	Points+Badges+Leaderboard	Europe
Elshemy (2017)
Undergrade	Education	Blended	Level+Badges	Europe
Gündüz and Akkoyunlu (2020)
Elementary	Science	Offline	Level+Badges	Asia
Karamert and Vardar (2021)
Undergraduate	CS	Blended	Level+Award+Badges+Leaderboard	Asia
Marin et al. (2018)
Middle	Science	Offline	Points	South America
Morales-Trujillo and García-Mireles (2020)
Undergraduate	Education	Blended	Points+Badges+Level+Leaderboard	North America
Ortiz Rojas (2017)
Undergraduate	CS	Blended	Level+Points+Badges	Europe
Rachels and Rockinson-Szapkiw (2017)
Highschool	Science	Offline	None	Europe
Sahin and Namli (2016)
Undergraduate	CS	Offline	Badges+Leaderboard	North America
Bernik et al. (2017)
Undergraduate	CS	Blended	Badges	Europe
Tasadduq et al. (2021)
Undergraduate	2016CS
Offline	Badges+LeaderBoard	Asia
Taskin and Kilic Cakmak (2022)
Elementary	Science	Offline	Points	Asia
Turan et al. (2016)
Highschool	CS	Offline	Points+Badges+Level+Leaderboard	Asia
Türkmen and Soyba (2019)
Middle	CS	Offline	Points+Badges+Leaderboard+Feedback	Asia
Wardoyo et al. (2021)
Undergraduate	CS	Blended	Points+Leaderboards	Asia
Yildirim (2017
Elementary	Language	Offline	Points+Badges+Leaderboard	Europe
Distributions of studies according to the moderating variables
The study's moderator variable analysis revealed notable patterns across regions, education levels, game elements, subjects and learning environments (Table 2). With a predominant focus on Asia and Europe, the research indicates a growing interest in gamification's impact on undergraduate education, particularly in fields such as Computer Science. The gamification strategies employed varied widely, with a predominant emphasis on points, badges and leaderboards, often combined to enhance engagement and motivation. While subjects like Science and Computer Science garnered significant attention, other disciplines such as Education and Language also saw exploration. Furthermore, the study highlighted the diverse learning environments in which gamification was implemented, including blended, offline and online settings, with implications for educational practices and future research endeavours.
TABLE 2. Moderators in the current study.
Moderator variables	Categories	Studies
Region	Europe	7
	Asia	12
	South America	1
	North America	2
Education level	Elementary school	6
	Middle school	2
	High school	3
	Undergraduate	11
Game elements	Points	2
	Badges	1
	Points+leaderboards	1
	Levels+badges	2
	Levels+points+badges	1
	Badges+leaderboards	2
	Points+badges+leaderboards	5
	Points+badges+feedback	1
	Points+badges+leaderboards+feedback	1
	Points+badges+levels+leaderboards	2
	Levels+awards+badges+leaderboards	1
	No data	3
Subject	Education	2
	Science	5
	Language	2
	Computer Science	11
	Management	1
	Economy	1
Learning environment	Blended	6
	Offline	10
	Online	6
Random effects model
From Table 3, it is shown that the Q value is 349.066, with df = 21 and p = 0.000. Referring to the critical values of the chi-square distribution, the corresponding value for a 95% confidence interval with 21 degrees of freedom is 93.984. From the table of critical values for the chi-square distribution, Q = 349.066 is greater than 42.796, which confirms the presence of heterogeneity in the study. The Q value is influenced by the number of included studies but does not provide information about the magnitude of heterogeneity.
TABLE 3. Random effects model.
Model	Hedges's g	95%CI	Heterogeneity
		LL	UL	Q	df	I 2	p
Fixed	0.727	0.669	0.786	349.066	21	93.984	0.000
Random	0.782	0.474	1.090				
To assess the degree of heterogeneity, I2 values were employed. These values indicated the overlap in confidence intervals of effect sizes and were independent of the size and distribution of true effects. I2 values categorized heterogeneity as low, medium or high, corresponding to 25%, 50% and 75% increments respectively. In this study, I2 = 93.984, which exceeds 75%, indicating a high level of heterogeneity among the original studies. Depending on the results of heterogeneity detection, statistical models could be selected. Statistical methods for meta-analysis included fixed-effects models and random-effects models. When heterogeneity is high, the random-effects model has more explanatory power for the results. Therefore, in this study, the results of the random effects model were chosen.
Overall effect of gamification on student learning outcomes
Figure 3 presents the forest plot, which provides a visual representation of the study's findings. The horizontal lines indicate the upper and lower limits of the confidence intervals, while the midpoints of the lines represent the effect values of each study. The size of the squares above the lines corresponds to the sample size, and the vertical line in the centre represents the no-effect line. The diamond below represents the combined effect values and their corresponding confidence intervals. Analysing the forest plot, it is evident that there is minimal overlap in the confidence intervals of individual studies, indicating the presence of heterogeneity among the studies. A total of 22 papers were included in this study, with a total sample size of 3144. According to the effect size measure proposed by Cohen (1992), the combined effect size had a small effect near 0.2, a moderate effect near 0.5 and a significant effect near 0.8. Twelve of the included studies reported significant effects, two reported moderate effects, seven reported low effects and two had negative effect values. The overall combined effect value as shown in Figure 3 (ES = 0.782), which lies between 0.4 and 0.8, implies that the use of gamification had a positive effect on learning outcomes, with a moderate to high effect.
 
FIGURE 3
Open in figure viewerPowerPoint
The forest plot of effect sizes (Hedges's g) using the random-effects model.
Publication bias
Upon examining the funnel plot in this study, it was observed that the majority of included studies were concentrated in the middle and upper part of the funnel, displaying an even distribution on both sides of the centreline (Figure 4). Only a few studies exhibited slight deviations from the centreline. Based on this preliminary analysis, it can be inferred that no significant publication bias exists in this study.
 
FIGURE 4
Open in figure viewerPowerPoint
Publication bias.
In this study, the results of Egger's test indicate p = 0.384 (>0.05), which suggests no significant publication bias. On the other hand, Begg's test yields z = 2.14 (>1.96). However, considering the relevant information and the suitability of Egger's test for small sample analysis, Egger's results were deemed more accurate and were therefore chosen. Consequently, the conclusion was that there was no publication bias in this paper. In the present study, the fail-safe coefficient was calculated using Comprehensive Meta-Analysis (CMA) as 1650 (α = 0.050, p = 0.000), indicating that 1650 nonsignificant studies would need to be included to overturn the study findings. Taken together, the findings from the funnel plot, the loss-of-safety coefficient and the Begg and Egger tests collectively indicated the absence of significant bias in the literature included in this study.
Moderator analysis
Region
The impact of gamification on learning outcomes shows positive results across all regions, indicating that the utilization of gamification elements has a beneficial effect on students' learning outcomes irrespective of the region. The value of q represents the standardized sum of squares of effect sizes, and a higher q value corresponds to a smaller p-value, indicating greater heterogeneity among the studies. Table 4 reveals that the between-group effect of regional variables is significant, with Q = 11.183 and p = 0.011 < 0.05. This suggests that the effect of gamified chemistry teaching on learning outcomes differs significantly among regions. Due to the limited volume of literature available for America, this study primarily focuses on comparing the effect sizes observed in Asia and Europe. The experimental data clearly indicate that the larger effect values observed in Asia may be attributed to the varying levels of students across different regions within the continent. This finding aligns with the higher test scores reported by PISA for East Asian students in PISA 2018.
TABLE 4. The region effect size on students' achievement.
Moderator	N	Hedges' s g	SE	95%CI	Overall effects
				LL	UL	
Asia	12	0.942	0.199	0.522	1.331	Q = 11.183
p = 0.011 < 0.05
Europe	7	0.512	0.386	−0.244	1.268	
America (N)	1	0.180	0.290	0.612	1.714	
America (S)	2	0.382	0.104	0.178	0.587	
Education level
This subgroup analysis categorized the school segments into four stages: elementary, middle school, high school and college. The results demonstrated a positive impact of gamification on learning effectiveness across all stages, with middle school showing the highest effect, followed by elementary school, high school and undergraduate levels (Table 5). The between-group effect, indicated by Q = 2.621 and p = 0.454 > 0.05, suggests that there is no significant difference in the effect of gamification application among school levels. In other words, the school level does not appear to be a determining factor influencing the effectiveness of gamification implementation. However, when considering the effect sizes for each school section, it can be observed that the implementation effect is stronger in both middle and high school levels compared to university and elementary schools.
TABLE 5. The educational level effect size on students' achievement.
Moderator	N	Hedges's g	SE	95%CI	Overall effects
				LL	UL	
Elementary	6	1.195	0.482	0.251	2.139	Q = 2.621
p = 0.454 > 0.05
Highschool	3	0.930	0.374	0.197	1.664	
Middle	2	1.283	1.010	−0.697	3.262	
Undergraduate	11	0.476	0.241	−0.003	0.949	
Learning environment
The learning environment plays a significant role in influencing learning outcomes, with previous studies indicating that online and blended learning have a more positive impact on learning outcomes compared to face-to-face learning (Vallée et al., 2019). However, there are also studies suggesting that there may not be a significant difference in the impact on learning outcomes across the three environments. Therefore, in this study, the learning environment was examined as a moderating variable to explore its effect on the effectiveness of gamification. The results of the data analysis revealed positive effect values in all three teaching environments, namely online, offline and blended learning (Table 6). The between-group effect, represented by Q = 2.788 and p = 0.248 > 0.05, indicates that there is no significant difference in the effect of gamification on learning outcomes among the different teaching environments. In other words, the impact of gamification on learning effectiveness does not vary significantly depending on whether the learning is conducted online, offline or in a blended manner.
TABLE 6. The learning environment effect size on students' achievement.
Moderator	N	Hedges's g	SE	95%CI	Overall effects
				LL	UL	
Blended	6	0.279	0.406	−0.516	1.074	Q = 2.788
p = 0.248 > 0.05
Offline	10	1.150	0.333	0.497	1.802	
Online	6	0.742	0.179	0.391	1.093	
Types of subject
The positive impact of gamification on learning outcomes was observed across different disciplines, suggesting that the application of gamification elements has a beneficial effect regardless of the subject area. However, the effect of gamification application varied significantly between subjects, as indicated by the between-group effect of the subject variable (Table 7). The Q value of 11.754 and p-value of 0.038 (p < 0.05) suggest that there are significant differences in the effect of gamification across different disciplines. Notably, the discipline of science exhibited the largest effect size, indicating that the implementation of gamification had a particularly strong positive impact in this subject area. This finding may be attributed to the specific characteristics and nature of science education and its unique approach to subject matter construction. These results emphasize that the effectiveness of gamification can be influenced by the subject being taught, and educators should consider tailoring gamification strategies to suit the specific requirements and characteristics of different disciplines.
TABLE 7. The subject effect size on students' achievement.
Moderator	N	Hedges's g	SE	95%CI	Overall effects
				LL	UL	
CS	11	0.501	0.253	0.006	0.997	Q = 11.943
p = 0.036 < 0.05
Economy	1	0.896	0.038	0.820	0.971	
Education	2	0.559	0.155	0.256	0.862	
Language	2	0.722	0.793	−0.832	2.276	
Management	1	1.255	0.185	0.894	1.617	
Science	5	1.519	0.620	0.303	2.375	
Game elements
The findings presented in Table 8 indicate that, overall, the application of game elements has a positive effect on academic performance. However, it is important to note that one specific combination of game elements, namely Levels+Badges+Leaderboards, was found to have a negative effect on academic performance. This finding aligns with the results reported by Bai et al. (2019), further supporting the notion that this particular combination may not be conducive to optimal academic outcomes. Furthermore, the analysis revealed a significant difference in the effects of different game elements on academic achievement, as indicated by the Q value of 154.324 and p-value of 0.00 (p < 0.05). Specifically, the combinations of Points+Badges+Leaderboards, Points+Leaderboards and Points+Badges+Leaderboards+Feedback exhibited higher effect values, suggesting that the inclusion of these game elements is associated with better academic results. However, it is important to acknowledge that the number of studies examining each type of game element was limited, which highlights the need for further comprehensive research to validate the findings of this study. Additional in-depth investigations are required to provide a more robust understanding of the effects of different game elements on academic performance.
TABLE 8. The game elements' effect size on students' achievement.
Moderator	N	Hedges's g	SE	95%CI	Overall effects
				LL	UL	
Badges	1	0.257	0.199	−0.133	0.648	Q = 154.324
p = 0.000 < 0.05
Badges+Leaderboards	2	0.476	0.167	0.148	0.805	
Levels+Award+Badges+Leaderboards	1	−1.254	0.166	−1.579	−0.929	
Levels+Badges	2	0.515	0.168	0.185	0.845	
Levels+Points+Badges	1	0.180	0.292	−0.392	0.751	
None	3	1.203	0.367	0.483	1.923	
Points	2	2.153	1.883	−1.537	5.843	
Points+Badges+Feedback	1	0.081	0.409	−0.720	0.882	
Points+Badges+Leaderboards	5	0.842	0.320	0.214	1.470	
Points+Badges+Leaderboard+Feedback	1	2.304	0.355	1.608	3.000	
Points+Badges+Levels+Leaderboards	2	0.361	0.301	−0.228	0.950	
Points+Leaderboards	1	1.376	0.231	0.923	1.829	
DISCUSSION
The findings of the study encompass various aspects related to the impact of gamification on students' academic achievement. Initially, despite the minor disruption caused by Covid-19, there has been a notable increase in research activity within the gamification domain, indicative of its growing significance in educational discourse.
Our findings indicate a positive impact of gamification on academic performance, aligning with existing studies (Dehghanzadeh et al., 2021; Yıldırım & Şen, 2021). The effect of gamification on student achievement showcases a varied landscape encompassing different educational levels, subjects, learning environments, game elements and regions. Notably, the utilization of game elements such as points, badges and leaderboards emerge as prevalent strategies across studies, reflecting their efficacy in enhancing student engagement and motivation, as reported by other studies (Leitão et al., 2022). The efficacy of gamification in enhancing academic performance extends globally, with the most favourable results observed in Asia, followed by Europe. The moderator analysis, spanning region, education level, learning environment, subject and game elements, offers valuable insights into the differential effects of gamification across various educational parameters. Notably, while the positive impact of gamification is evident across different regions and education levels, the effectiveness of gamification strategies may vary based on factors such as subject area and choice of game elements (Legaki et al., 2020).
Our moderation analysis also revealed that the application of gamification in universities showed limited effectiveness. This might be attributed to factors such as reduced learning hours in universities, courses emphasizing practical aspects over academic performance and the diversified grading criteria where test scores constitute only a portion. For example, numerous college programming courses have transitioned from traditional exams to more code-writing exercises. Additionally, university learning places greater emphasis on autonomy and demands less teacher oversight, potentially diminishing the impact of gamification compared to primary, middle and high schools (Thomas et al., 2015).
The study underscores that gamification exerts a more pronounced impact in face-to-face learning environments compared to other settings, emphasizing its significance in such scenarios. This discrepancy is attributed to the limited interactivity inherent in online courses, resulting in decreased student engagement (Bastos et al., 2022; Shah et al., 2022). Notably, online learning outperformed blended learning, with the latter showcasing suboptimal effectiveness. Challenges in blended learning implementation, including resource allocation, teacher and student motivation and complex organization, may contribute to this.
Regarding the incorporation of game elements, the findings suggest that badges effectively incentivize students through reward systems (Shields & Chugh, 2017). This approach promotes focused learning rather than aimless gaming. While points and leaderboards may induce a sense of shame among lower-performing students, the study highlights the positive impact of leaderboards in fostering healthy competition, especially when only displaying the top scores while preserving the privacy of lower-scoring students. Notably, the study emphasizes that more game elements do not necessarily yield better results, cautioning against blind adoption and emphasizing the need for a strategic approach to maximize the positive impact of gamification on academic performance (Armier et al., 2016).
IMPLICATIONS AND FUTURE STUDY
This study contributes significantly to the existing literature in three key areas. First, it enhances our comprehension of gamification in educational environments by quantifying its impact on learners' academic performance, grounding its benefits in empirical evidence rather than unsubstantiated claims. Second, the research identifies moderating factors that influence the effectiveness of gamification. It underscores that the mere inclusion of gamification elements does not universally enhance learning outcomes; instead, it emphasizes the importance of tailoring these elements to individual learners' preferences and needs. The study reveals that younger students may benefit from straightforward game mechanics, immediate feedback and frequent rewards, while their college counterparts may prefer more complex games with progressive difficulty levels and social features for collaboration or competition. Notably, the study indicates that combinations such as Points, Points+Badges+Leaderboard+Feedback and Points+Leaderboards exhibit a more favorable effect size, suggesting their potential for improving students' learning outcomes. This finding offers guidance for educators to strategically incorporate these game elements in teaching practices. Additionally, it highlights the need for further exploration into different combinations of game elements and their impact on students' test scores. The study also underscores the influence of learners' characteristics, such as age, gender, prior knowledge and cognitive abilities, on the impact of gamification on academic performance. Considering educational level as a variable allows researchers to discern how gamification functions across diverse educational contexts, offering insights into effective practices and design principles tailored to each level. Lastly, educational institutions are urged to prioritize the enhancement of blended learning methodologies, ensuring they appeal to both educators and learners. This involves providing extensive resources and support to educators, facilitating their effective implementation of blended learning strategies. Additionally, institutions should strategically integrate gamification into these methodologies to maximize outcomes while minimizing resource expenditure.
These findings enrich our comprehension of the intricate dynamics involved in implementing and assessing the effectiveness of gamification within educational environments. They serve as a catalyst for informed decision-making and inspire future research ventures in this field. Moving forward, it is imperative for gamification research to consider the unique dynamics present in student–teacher relationships, especially within university settings.
STUDY LIMITATIONS
This study has several limitations that should be acknowledged. Firstly, while the effectiveness of teaching encompasses both students' academic achievement and non-cognitive abilities, this study solely focuses on the effect of gamified instruction on academic achievement and does not consider the impact on non-cognitive abilities. It would be valuable for future research to explore the influence of gamified instruction on students' non-cognitive abilities as well. Another limitation is the reliance on a database-based literature search, omitting potential evidence from online research platforms, authoritative government reports and other non-traditional sources. This could introduce publication bias and selective reporting bias. Additionally, the study exclusively selected English literature, overlooking relevant research in other languages. Broadening the scope to include literature in various languages would enhance the comprehensiveness of the study.
CONCLUSIONS
Gamified learning has emerged as a widely embraced pedagogical theory and educational practice, recognized for its capacity to elevate motivation, enhance student engagement and ultimately bolster academic achievement (Zahedi et al., 2021). Rooted in the notion of harnessing students' intrinsic enjoyment of games to fuel their motivation for learning (Chiu et al., 2021), gamification has undergone extensive study, yielding varied perspectives on its impact on academic outcomes. While the existing literature showcases positive effects, a consensus remains elusive. This paper seeks to bridge this gap by offering a comprehensive overview of quantitative research in educational settings focused on gamification. Specifically, through a meta-analysis of 22 experimental studies conducted between 2008 and 2023, this research explored the influence of gamification on student academic performance, measured through objective instruments like test scores. The outcomes, analysed using a random effects model, revealed a moderately positive effect of gamification on academic performance. This study contributes empirical evidence affirming the positive influence of gamification on student academic performance. Additionally, the moderator analyses provide valuable insights into the strategic incorporation of game design elements and considerations tailored to diverse educational stages. As educators continue to explore innovative approaches, these findings serve as a guiding resource, offering practical considerations for the effective implementation of gamification in educational settings.

As the digital landscape continues to evolve with ever-more immersive video games and apps, leaving education behind in making learning a more engaging experience would be a missed opportunity. Gamification, an increasingly popular way to entice learners, continues to grow with apps like Duolingo. Critics argue it can distract from actual learning, which begs the question: Is gamification genuinely beneficial to students, and to what extent? This article takes a balanced approach, looking at psychological studies to explore gamification’s continuing role in education.
What is Gamification in Education?
The eLearning Industry defines gamification as “the use of game design features, mechanics, and concepts in education [aimed] to produce more engaging and fun learning environments.” Some examples of gamified elements include:
	Earning Points
	Badges
	Climbing Leaderboards
	Avatars
	Performance Graphs
	Teammates 
	Meaningful Stories
	Daily/Weekly Challenges
Gamification in education applies to classrooms, e-learning platforms, and workplace training. It differs from game-based learning in that gamification adds to a learning experience with the above elements. In contrast, game-based learning focuses on achieving specific objectives within a game framework. 
Gamification Advantages in Education
1. Engagement and Motivation Boost
Rewards, achievements, and competition can boost learner motivation. The table below from the study, How Gamification Motivates: An Experimental Study of the Effects of Specific Game Design Elements on Psychological Need Satisfaction, provides a reference point for how certain game elements can increase engagement and motivation based on psychological needs, showing the gamified feature that supplies the need.
“Table 1. Psychological needs with matching game design elements.
Psychological need	Mechanism	Game design element
Need for competence	Granular feedback	Points
	Sustained feedback	Performance graphs
	Cumulative feedback	Badges
	Cumulative feedback	Leaderboards
Need for autonomy (decision freedom)	Choices	Avatars
Need for autonomy (task meaningfulness)	Volitional engagement	Meaningful stories
Need for social relatedness	Sense of relevance	Teammates
	Shared goal	Meaningful stories”
Psychological needs paired with elements of gamification have the potential to keep learners intrigued and satisfied with the learning process—upping motivation and engagement rates.
2. Enhances Retention and Memory
The psychology of “rewards” in gamification can strengthen memory and retention. Feedback loops (e.g., immediate feedback on quizzes) help solidify learning by reinforcing concepts with explanations. With Peterson’s Test Prep, you’ll find explanations for answers to provide high retention of learning material.
3. Encourages Active Participation and Collaboration
Collaborative elements, such as team-based challenges, can impact social learning. Collaboration through gamification can mirror real-world problem-solving and help students feel like they belong and are a part of the problem-solving solution. In How Gamification Motivates: An Experimental Study of the Effects of Specific Game Design Elements on Psychological Need Satisfaction, researchers found that “Together with teammates, who can be real co-players or non-player characters, a sense of relevance can be evoked by emphasizing the importance of the players’ actions for the group’s performance… A shared goal, which can be conveyed within a meaningful story, can also foster experiences of social relatedness.” Thereby, collaborative elements help to contribute to a sense of belonging.
4. Provides Clear Goals and Progress Tracking
Gamification can help learners track their progress in various ways, fulfilling a psychological need for competence connected to intrinsic motivation. As discussed in the research article above, researchers found that “points provide the player with granular feedback, which can be directly connected to the actions of the player. Performance graphs visually indicate the player’s progress over time, thereby providing sustained feedback. Badges and leaderboards assess a series of player actions and provide cumulative feedback.” You will see similar models of tracking progress in Peterson’s courses so that students can understand how their study efforts influence their competency in a given subject. Overall, having clear goals and the ability to track progress leads to more significant learning outcomes.
Cons of Gamification in Learning
1. Risk of Extrinsic Motivation Over Internal Motivation
Constant rewards may make learners dependent on external validation rather than internal motivation. Intrinsic motivation often leads to higher sustained motivation. When students rely solely on extrinsic validation to complete a task, their motivation and engagement may fade once rewards diminish.
2. Potential for Competition-Induced Stress
Competition elements like leaderboards and ranks might lead to anxiety or stress for some learners. Competition might discourage collaboration and negatively affect those who do not desire to be high achievers, crafting a sense of isolation and negatively impacting the learning experience.
3. Not Always Suitable for Complex or Conceptual Learning
Some complex concepts may be oversimplified when they require deep thought and reflection to grasp fully. Gamification may detract from learning outcomes, especially in areas that benefit from a less structured approach, like creative writing, critical thinking and debate crafting, social-emotional learning, scientific research, and inquiry-based learning. Many of these areas require an open-ended, process-based approach that can be difficult to encapsulate in a gamified setting.
4. Requires Significant Time and Resources
Designing practical gamification elements requires effort, creativity, and often, funding. Gamified aspects can be challenging for schools or organizations to create, especially with limited resources. The quality and aesthetic of gamified elements matter. Based on research from the article above, “gamification can be a powerful solution to address motivational problems within learning or working contexts, as long as they are well designed and are built upon well-established implementation models.” Without significant investment in intentionally designing elements, engagement falters. 
5. Concerns of Accessibility and Inclusivity
Effective gamification must include the full breadth of students, meaning that it needs to be accessible and inclusive of all students. As the eLearning Industry states in its article on gamification, “It is critical that gamified educational platforms be available to all students, especially those with impairments or limited access to technology.” Without proper accessibility and inclusivity, gamification may be detrimental to populations seeking to learn who cannot access the tools necessary for their needs and background, and thereby, ineffective for education as a whole.
Best Practices for Using Gamification Effectively
	Balance gamification elements to avoid reliance on external rewards.
	Emphasize inclusivity and promote collaborative aspects rather than focusing solely on competition.
	Use gamification as a supplemental rather than a primary teaching method.
Conclusion
Gamification in education has its advantages for learners, including increased engagement, motivation, enhanced retention of material, and improved collaboration with peers. Even still, gamification has downsides, such as reliance on extrinsic motivation with rewards, competitive stress, and the oversimplification of complex topics. When approaching subjects with more complicated mechanisms, open-ended, and process-led experiences, it may be best to forego gamification as it may detract from the learning experience. On the other hand, gamification may enhance students’ learning experience in more direct learning concepts.
Implementing gamification requires time, expertise, and resources to produce quality content that will not detract from the learning experience. Therefore, it is essential to apply gamification thoughtfully, with aesthetics, accessibility, and inclusivity in mind.
As technology progresses, it is vital to remain aware and routinely assess the benefits and consequences of its presence in the classroom and students’ lives. As new developments unfold in education and beyond, we must remain open to exploring different approaches to see what best benefits students. Gamification may be an excellent addition to the unique needs of learners. Or it may not suit learners’ unique needs, so exercising discretion in its application is wise. Either way, in education, we aim to positively impact students’ academic careers with a customizable, agile, and lifelong educational journey for all, alongside technological advances.

Effectiveness of Gamification in Enhancing Learning and Attitudes: A Study of Statistics Education for Health School Students
MEHRNOOSH KHOSHNOODIFAR 1, ASIEH ASHOURI 1,2*, MAHDOKHT TAHERI 3
	Author information
	Article notes
	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC10611935  PMID: 37901759
Abstract
Introduction:
Gamification is the use of game design elements in non-game contexts. It is considered a student-centered instructional design to motivate student learning and academic behavior. In this study, the effects of gamification on learning statistics (hypothesis testing issue) and attitude toward statistics in comparison with the common e-learning approach were investigated. The students’ experience and critical elements of gamification on learning statistics were assessed, too.
Methods:
In a before and after trial, in a census manner, 64 health faculty students of Guilan University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran, non-randomly were assigned to the intervention (n=42) and control (n=22) groups. Learning activities were gamified in the intervention group, while the control group received traditional problem-solving in the learning management system. Narrative, avatar, level, point, progress bar, scoreboard, challenge and feedback elements were used in the game experience. The implementation of gamification was applied based on Landers’ theory of gamified content. Valid and reliable Persian version of the Survey Attitude toward Statistics questionnaire measured the students’ attitude before and after the intervention. The EGameFlow questionnaire and a valid and reliable researcher-made exam measured the users’ experience of gamified content and learning hypothesis testing after the intervention. The independent samples T-test, analysis of covariance and the partial eta-squared effect size were calculated by SPSS software, version 26.
Results:
Compared to the control group, the intervention group had a more positive attitude toward learning difficulty (moderate partial eta-squared 0.099), value and cognitive competency (weak partial eta-squared=0.01 and 0.05). Learning between the two groups was not different (P=0.522). There was a significant correlation between learning and the students’ perceived experience with feedback (r=0.583, P<0.001), concentration (r=0.509, P=0.005), and challenge (r=0.421, P=0.023) of the gamified content.
Conclusion:
It suggests using gamification on learning statistics while optimizing the design with more focus on the feedback, challenge and concentration elements.
Keywords: Gamification, Learning, Attitude, Biostatistics, Students
Introduction
The development of statistical thinking is of great importance at all educational levels, and learning statistics is considered a core subject in almost all fields of medical sciences ( 1 , 2 ). In general, learning statistics provides potential skills for performing logical reasoning, critical thinking, development of interpretation and evaluation skills, and ease of dealing with entirely abstract concepts for learners ( 3 ). Also, this course plays an essential role in the career path of the students of medical sciences to understand and conduct scientific research ( 2 ).
However, learning statistics is challenging for many learners ( 4 , 5 ). It is because of complexity and non-intuition of statistical concepts, lack of necessary mathematical knowledge or difficulty in dealing with the context of the problems and emotional issues, such as statistical anxiety, lack of self-efficacy and negative attitude towards statistics ( 3 , 6 - 8 ). Some studies have reported that learners misunderstand most statistical concepts, such as descriptive statistics, probability, and statistical inferences ( 8 ), indicating insufficient learning in traditional teaching approaches.
Studies in statistics education show that using active learning methods, humor, and computer and information technology allows learners to discover, construct and understand important statistical concepts, and engage in statistical thinking. Also, these approaches can increase self-confidence, facilitate understanding of statistical concepts, increase knowledge retention, and improve learners' performance ( 9 , 10 ). The Guidelines for Assessment and Instruction in Statistics Education (GAISE) College Report published in 2016 also emphasizes the attention to active learning in statistics education ( 11 ).
Active learning means a set of approaches that engage learners in doing work or thinking about what they are doing ( 12 ). In other words, active learning is anything related to learning other than just looking, listening, and taking notes that all learners in the class are asked to do ( 13 ). Nowadays, especially after the COVID-19 pandemic, the development of using electronic platforms in education has provided a favorable condition for using new approaches in education. One of them is gamification, a strategy that has been considered to improve active learning ( 14 ). Gamification is the use of game design elements in non-game contexts ( 15 ). It seems that gamification through increasing motivation, engaging activity, and maintaining interaction with the content can be useful and positively affect learning ( 15 - 17 ). Also, the compatibility of games with active learning methods and effective learning has caused interest in using games and gamification in teaching and learning ( 18 , 19 ).
Two meta-analysis studies, including research in different fields, show that applying gamification in education can improve cognitive, motivational and behavioral learning outcomes with small to medium effect sizes (0.25 to 0.56). However, according to the available investigations, the size of the reported effect on the motivational and behavioral outcomes is not stable ( 19 , 20 ). Although studies in gamification of adult education are increasing, there are still many unanswered questions in this field. For example, the effectiveness of gamification in different contexts and subjects has remained unclear ( 20 - 22 ), the key elements of gamification or the combinations that have the greatest impact are not known ( 23 - 25 ), and there is not enough knowledge about factors contributing to successful gamification ( 19 , 21 ). Also, which features of games are more effective in supporting which type of learning or how different games influence learning is unknown ( 19 , 24 ).
There are limited studies with contrary results about the effects of gamification on statistics learning ( 10 , 26 - 28 ). So, this study was designed to investigate the impact of using gamification on the health faculty students’ learning and attitude toward statistics compared with the common electronic learning approach. Additionally, the study aims to examine how students experience gamification and which elements of gamification are related to their learning of statistics. Since hypothesis testing in inferential statistics is one of the critical concepts and various studies have addressed misconceptions and learners’ difficulty understanding this topic ( 8 , 10 ), in this study, the issue of hypothesis testing was selected. So, learning activities were gamified as active problem-solving.
Methods
Participants
In a quasi-experimental study, in a census manner, all undergraduate students studying in the health major taking the biostatistics course at the health faculty of Guilan University of Medical Sciences (GUMS) between October to January 2021 were enrolled in this study. Inclusion criteria was taking the biostatistics course in Autumn semester 2021 in health faculty of GUMS. Students with a history of taking statistics courses or unwilling to participate in the study were excluded. Also, students who stated they did not study the educational content or didn't attend the learning evaluation were withdrawn from the study.
According to the results of the Delgado-Gomez et al.’s (2020) study, the standard deviation of the learning score were 3.05±1.58 in the intervention group (receiving learning with gamification) and 1.21±1.00 in the control group (receiving learning without gamification) ( 10 ). Regarding α=0.05 and power of 0.80, the minimum sample size required in each group was calculated as at least 16 students. Three classes of students who enrolled in the study were assigned to the intervention (2 classes, n=42) or control group (1 class, n=22) in a nonrandom manner (Figure 1). At the enrollment, students were unaware of their allocation group. It was emphasized that learners do not exchange their educational content with other students’ classes until the end of the study.
Figure 1.
 
Open in a new tab
Flow Diagram of study participants
Educational content and learning activities
The e-learning content of statistical hypothesis testing was provided for studying in 2 weeks. The general goals were introducing inferential statistics and statistical hypothesis testing of a mean or proportion. Objectives were defined as follows: 1) understanding the concept of inferential statistics and the difference between census and sampling, 2) writing null and alternative hypotheses, 3) understanding type I and II error and significance level, 4) calculating hypothesis testing statistics, 5) determining the critical region and 6) making the decision to reject or fail to reject about the null hypothesis.
In the educational content, as prerequisites, the mean, standard deviation (SD) and proportion calculating, familiarity with standard normal distribution, t-student distribution, central limit theorem and sampling distribution were reviewed, and essential notes were mentioned. The educational content included the lecture, questions and answers, and examples of problem-solving.
The content of learning activities by instructional objectives included [1] recalling concepts related to inferential statistics and hypothesis testing (15 true-false questions), [2] recalling test criterion values from the standard normal probability distribution (3 multiple-choice questions), [3] conducting a hypothesis test for a mean and proportion (3 problem-solving segmented in sixteen 4-choice questions and [4] one problem-solving question including five short-answer or fill in the blank questions). In addition, 20 optional questions in the form of 4-choices were given. Some questions required calculations and responding to the learning activities content was estimated to be about one hour.
Gamification of learning activities
The intervention group received learning activities that were gamified. The game experience was created through the use of various game elements or mechanics, including narrative, avatar, level, points, progress bars, scoreboards, challenges, and feedback.
During the design step, key information such as the overall concept of the game, narrative, characters, environment, how to play the game, rules, scoring and feedback system, as well as the visual, sensory and artistic aspects was taken into consideration. Technical and software requirements of the game were also determined ( 29 ). The game features were documented based on the gamified learning theory of Lander ( 30 ). A detailed summary of these characteristics is presented in Table 1.
Table 1.
Gamification component by Bedwell game attributes category and based on Landers theory of gamified learning
Game attributes	Gamification elements
Action Language	The student played the game as a single user on the computer or smart phone online, using the computer keyboard or mouse or touching the phone screen and typing.
Assessment	For all activities, instant feedback of correctness or incorrectness, explanation of wrong options, earning or deducting points, points of each level, total points, scoreboard and flag of the successful passage of the level or challenge were provided. Moving from each level to the next level depended on taking the minimum target score set at each level.
Conflict/Challenge	According to the learning objectives, the content was designed in 5 levels with increasing difficulty. The student answers questions with different Bloom's taxonomy, including knowledge, understanding, application, and analysis. In the levels of the first to third, the feedback includes whether the answer is correct or incorrect, an explanation of the correct answer and the reasons for rejecting the other options (this feedback is displayed if the wrong option is selected). In the fourth level and final challenge, the feedback only includes whether the answer is correct or incorrect. In the last challenge, the wrong answer was accompanied by a deduction of points.
Control	The player chooses an avatar as the narrator. At the end of each level, the player can replay that level and gets a higher score or go to the next level. Also, if the player receives the desired score, the player will skip the final challenge at own discretion.
Environment	The game environment was designed two-dimensionally with the experience of the health major student’s life reality to remember what was learned and help others solve the problem.
Game fiction	In the game, the student is looking for help to solve the question of two young health employees. For this purpose, the player goes through the stages of recalling the knowledge and concepts of hypothesis testing and conducting some examples of hypothesis testing. In the fourth level, the player solves the relevant employees’ question. Lastly, the student deals with the challenge of skill and mastery in conducting hypothesis testing. The game occurs in various collegian backgrounds, including a coffee shop, library, tablet or pen and paper on a table.
Human interaction	The interaction of students with each other and the instructor was planned through the class WhatsApp group outside the game so that students could share their progress, ask questions and receive relevant guidance.
Immersion	Computer or smart phone interfaces were considered for playing to facilitate the immersion. Touch, drag and drop and typing were used to play the game. Feedback in the form of the avatar face or a failure or success voice was provided. At the first level, pseudo competition between the player and avatar, using a designed algorithm, was an attempt to involve the player emotionally and believability of the game characters. In various cases, clues (such as images for the formulas guide) were used to keep the player engaged with the game and overcome the challenges. To create a sense of security and avoid failure, each stage of the game could play again.
Rules/Goals	The game’s general purpose and how to play it were explained upon entering the game. In an overview, the path of the game and the topic of each level were displayed for the player. The player should answer all the questions at each level. To pass each level and unlock the next level, the player should earn a specific score informed at the beginning of each level.
Open in a new tab
The control group, on the other hand, received learning activities that had the same content as the intervention group but were designed using conventional electronic learning methods, such as multiple-choice or short-answer questions that provided instant feedback. To create motivation for studying and encourage critical thinking in the control group, no explanations or details of problem-solving were provided instantly with the learning activities. The intention was to prompt students to think about the problems and find solutions independently. The control group was given the document containing details of the solutions, four days before the learning assessment.
All contents were prepared by Articulate Storyline 360 software ( 31 , 32 ) and located in the learning management system (LMS). The face and functional validity of the gamified content were assessed by an expert panel and two students in a pilot study, and the necessary corrections were made before the intervention.
Instruments
Demographic characteristics, including gender, age, semester, total grade point average, history of playing digital games, and frequency of games played per month, were recorded. Students' attitudes were measured by the Survey of Attitudes Toward Statistics (SATS-36) (© Schau et al., 2003) questionnaire ( 7 , 33 ). The scale consists of 36 Likert items from strongly disagree [1] to strongly agree [7]. It assesses six components, including Affect (six items about positive and negative feelings about statistics), Cognitive Competence (six items evaluate attitudes about intellectual knowledge and skills when applying statistics), Value (nine items about the attitude towards the usefulness, relevance and worth of the statistics in personal and professional life), Difficulty (seven items about the attitude towards the difficulty of statistics as a subject), Interest (four items about the level of interest aspect of the intrinsic value) and Effort (four items about the amount of work that the learner spends on learning statistics). A higher value on each component shows a more positive attitude. The validity and reliability of the Persian version of the scale have been confirmed using confirmatory factor analysis. Cronbach's alpha coefficient for affect, cognitive competency, value and difficulty was 0.79, 0.76, 0.82 and 0.57 ( 34 ). Cronbach's alpha coefficient for interest and effort was calculated in a pilot study as 0.89 and 0.80, confirming the reliability.
Learning the subject of hypothesis testing was measured through an exam constructed by the instructor. It consisted of 15 multiple-choice questions related to each instructional objective. The validity of the content was confirmed by a panel of experts, including two statistics specialists and one instructional evaluation specialist. The reliability of the examination was approved by the Kuder-Richardson coefficient (0.83 in a pilot study). Also, the intervention group students were asked to report the frequency of studying with gamified content.
The EGameFlow questionnaire assessed students' experience with gamified content ( 35 ). The questionnaire includes 42 items in 8 subscales (Concentration including six items, Goal Clarity 4 items, Feedback 5 items, Challenge 6 items, Autonomy 3 items, Immersion 7 items, Social Interaction 6 items and Knowledge Improvement 5 items). Each item is measured with a likert scale of 7 points from strongly disagree [1] to strongly agree [7]. The questionnaire determines the user’s enjoyable experience with the game, and the higher scores calculated from the sum of points indicate a better user experience. Cronbach's alpha coefficient for the Persian version of the questionnaire calculated in a pilot study was 0.95 overall and 0.70 for concentration, 0.92 for goal clarity, 0.92 for Feedback, 0.82 for challenges, 0.85 for autonomy, 0.88 for Immersion, 0.91 for social interactions and 0.56 for Knowledge Improvement subscale which indicates the acceptable reliability of the scale. All questionnaires and learning tests had been prepared electronically and completed online.
Procedure
At the beginning of the course, in an online class, the researcher explained the aim and process of the study to students. They were informed that participation was voluntary and their information would remain anonymous. After five asynchronous class sessions, in an online session, the researcher practiced and reviewed the prerequisites of hypothesis testing issues (as mentioned above) and answered students' questions. After that, the students giving informed consent completed a questionnaire including demographic characteristics and the pre-intervention version of SATS-36. Then, students of both groups, in parallel, received the same educational content of the hypothesis testing. The content was provided to them in the LMS to study in two weeks. The control group solved practice problems as learning activities and uploaded them in the LMS, but the intervention group used the gamified content of the practice problems. After the study deadline, in an online session, students of the two groups completed the post-intervention version of SATS-36. Also, the intervention group completed the Egameflow questionnaire. Then, all students participated in the learning evaluation. The study was approved by the ethical committee of Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences (approval ID: IR.SBMU.SME.REC.1400.062). Informed written consent was obtained from all participants.
Statistical analysis
Frequency (percentage) and mean (standard deviation) or median (range) were used to describe the data. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was performed to assess the normal distribution of quantitative variables, which was valid for all characteristics (except the frequency of games played per month). Independent samples t-test, Mann-Whitney U test or chi-square test were used to compare the characteristics between the intervention and control groups. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was used to assess the effects of the intervention, adjusting to the baseline values recorded before the intervention. Homogeneity of variance and parallel regression line assumptions were examined and met in all analyses. The effect size of partial eta squared was reported and values of 0.01–0.06, 0.06–0.14, and more than 0.14 were considered small, medium, and large effects, respectively. Partial eta squared lower than 0.01 indicated a negligible effect. The significance level of the tests was considered 0.05. IBM SPSS software, version 26.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY) was used for data analyses.
Results
Students’ characteristics
The demographic characteristics of the students are shown in Table 2. In total, 64 undergraduate students in health majors (control group, n=22 and intervention group, n=42) with a mean age of 20.5 years (SD: 1.1, range: 19 to 23) were included in the study. Fifty-two (81%) of the participants were female. More than half of the students said they had never played digital games or rarely played (64%). There was no statistical difference between the two intervention and control groups regarding demographic characteristics.
Table 2.
Demographic characteristics of the students participating in the study
Characteristic	Total (n=64)	Intervention group (n=42)	Control group (n=22)	P
Gender	
Female	52 (81)	32 (76)	20 (91)	0.193
Male	12 (19)	10 (24)	2 (9)	
Age in year, (mean±SD, range)	20.47±1.10 (19-23)	20.54±1.27 (19-23)	20.35±0.76 (19-22)	0.782
Semester	
Three	47 (73)	27 (62)	20 (91)	0.001
Four	17 (27)	15 (36)	2 (9)	
Total GPA, (mean±SD, range)	16.16±1.23 (13-18.59)	16.17±1.33 (13-18.59)	16.13±0.98 (14-17)	
History of playing digital games**

Never	5 (9)	2 (6)	3 (15)	0.401
Few	30 (55)	19 (54)	11 (55)	
Average	13 (24)	10 (29)	3 (15)	
A lot	7 (13)	4 (11)	3 (15)	
Games played frequency per month (median, range)	4 (1-60)	4.5 (1-60)	3.5 (1-50)	0.993
Open in a new tab
The values are frequency (percent), otherwise described. GPA indicates grade point average and SD, standard deviation.
*
P-value was reported to compare groups for baseline characteristics.
**
The difference from the total number was due to missing data
Students’ attitude toward the statistics
Students' attitude toward the statistics is described in table 3. At the beginning of the study, attitude in all components in both groups was moderately positive, and only attitude toward difficulty was low, so students thought statistics was a difficult subject. Although the control group had a more positive attitude in all components, no component of attitude differed significantly between the groups (P>0.05 for all). After the intervention, attitude toward difficulty was significantly more positive in the intervention group than in the control group (3.75±0.79 vs. 3.16±0.92, P=0.019, Table 3). Gamification improves the attitude about the difficulty of statistics learning with a moderate effect size. Also, according to the effect sizes, gamification affected the value and cognitive competency of learning statistics with a weak effect size (partial eta square between 0.01 and 0.06). Other attitude components did not significantly differ between the groups (P>0.05 for all, Table 3).
Table 3.
Attitudes toward statistics component measured at baseline and after the intervention
Dimensions	Intervention group (n=42)	Control group (n=22)	P**
Partial eta square
	baseline	after intervention	Adj. mean (95% CI)*
baseline	after intervention	Adj. mean (95% CI)*
	
Affect	4.29±1.44	4.08±1.39	4.12(3.72-4.51)	4.63±1.16	4.17±1.34	4.12(3.63-4.61)	0.990	<0.001
Value	4.67±1.12	4.63±1.22	4.71(4.43-4.98)	5.11±0.96	4.44±0.89	4.33(3.98-4.68)	0.099	0.051
Cognitive Competency	4.47±1.29	4.48±1.15	4.54(4.23-4.84)	4.91±0.88	4.44±1.04	4.35(3.97-4.72)	0.431	0.012
Difficulty	3.64±0.87	3.75±0.79	3.72(3.46-3.97)	3.48±0.82	3.16±0.92	3.22(2.90-3.54)	0.019	0.099
Effort	5.78±0.99	5.57±1.20	5.64(5.32-5.96)	6.18±0.68	5.69±0.94	5.58(5.18-5.98)	0.808	0.001
Interest	4.47±1.63	4.50±1.68	4.50(4.10-4.91)	4.73±1.22	4.32±1.35	4.32(3.81-4.82)	0.568	0.006
Open in a new tab
The values are mean±SD, otherwise described. Possible range is 1 to 7. SD indicated standard deviation; Adj, adjusted; CI, confidence interval.
*
Post intervention mean, adjusted to the baseline measures and related 95% confidence interval was reported.
*
P-value was reported from the analysis of covariance to compare groups post intervention, controlling for the baseline values.
Students’ learning statistics
Regarding learning statistical hypothesis testing, comparing the mean scores showed no significant difference between the two groups (7.21±3.5 vs. 7.77±2.76 in the intervention and control group, respectively; P=0.522). Regarding the students’ involvement with the game, the mean and standard deviation of the number of times entering the game according to the students' statements was 2.67±1.63 (range 1 to 6). The data showed a strong positive and significant correlation between game involvement and learning (P=0.002, r=0.565).
Students’ experience with gamificationIn the evaluation of the gamified content from the students’ point of view, from the possible range of 1 to 7, the mean and standard deviation of the total score was 4.94±0.84. The aspects of knowledge improvement (5.29±1.04), feedback (5.23±1.08), challenge (5.16±1.03), and goal clarity (5.10±1.03) obtained a higher score than other aspects of concentration (4.92±1.13), control (4.81±1.18), social interaction (4.53±1.09), and immersion (4.52±1.23). The evaluation of the students in total and all dimensions was moderate to high (significantly higher than the average score of 4) (P>0.05 in all cases).
Discussions
In this study, the effect of using gamification on electronic learning and attitude toward statistics was investigated. Lesson learning activities were designed using the gamification approach with elements of point, level, challenge, scoreboard, feedback, narrative and avatar. The results indicated no significant difference between groups in learning; however, gamification improved students' attitudes regarding the difficulty of the statistics in a medium effect size and statistics value and cognitive competency in a weak effect size.
Similar to our study, research reported by Boyle, et al. (2014), Novak, et al. (2016), Smith (2017) and Wronowski, et al. (2020) indicates using gamification elements does not improve learning statistics ( 3 , 27 , 28 , 36 ). However, the results of Delgado-Gomez, et al. (2020) and Legaki, et al.’s (2020) studies state students who experienced learning in a modified game environment had better learning ( 10 , 26 ). The learning strategy of divide-and-conquer and the content exposure control in Delgado-Gomez et al.'s study may cause the different result. Also, considering that in the study of Legaki et al., most of the students were in the field of electrical and computer engineering and the greater familiarity of students with technology can be a reason for different outcomes. Furthermore, differences in designing the gamification can affect the results ( 23 , 24 ). A study in the statistics course reported that social feedback’s impact positively affects students’ performance, while temporal-self feedback showed no effect ( 37 ). This issue strengthens the use of students' social comparison in the design of statistics course gamification, which was not used in the present study due to technical limitations. Also, another reason for the lack of observation of gamification’s impact on learning may be that students employ all their efforts and facilities to get good grades in the evaluations in both groups. So, measuring the students’ effort in acquiring this amount of learning and comparing it between the two groups can provide a better assessment.
Our gamified content improved students' attitude toward the statistics, which can be explained by elements used in the design. The narrative of the gamified content focused on the usefulness of the player's activity in serving and helping others positively impacted the students' attitude regarding the value of statistics and its benefits. However, since the enjoyment of the intrinsic value of the statistics was not been targeted, it did not have much impact on students’ affect. It seems that the elements of point, feedback and scoreboard, through promoting self-efficacy and self-confidence, affected students’ attitude toward their cognitive competency. It is similar to the Sailor, et al.’s study that badges, leaderboards, and performance graphs affect competence need satisfaction and task meaningfulness ( 24 ). Also, in our gamified content, in addition to the existence of learning activities prerequisite, the presence of guides and clues in the game, the presentation of problems in a step-by-step and segmented structure, and having control and authority lead to increased interaction and engagement. So, it effectively improved the attitude towards the difficulty of the nature of the statistics course. But on the other hand, the elements of our gamified content were not successful enough in making students interested in learning statistics and making more effort to learn. Similar to our results, other researchers also reported the effect of gamification on improving affective outcomes, including perceived cognitive competency, affective, value and difficulty of statistics ( 27 ) in using gamified modules in face-to-face class and/or improvement of engagement, absorption and interest in statistics by using a serious statistical game ( 28 ).
In the present study, the students' experience with gamified activities was favorable regarding knowledge improvement, feedback, challenge and goal clarity but moderate in terms of concentration, control, immersion and social interaction. In our content design, cooperative activity and the internal community of players were not supported. Opportunity for the interaction of learners considered only through the class group on the WhatsApp. Also, despite being satisfied with being involved in the game, students expressed less satisfaction with the emotional and visceral immersion. Generally, this issue can be caused by the limitation of gamification in using game elements and creating immersion ( 38 ). In this regard, Landers states that immersion in a three-dimensionally designed laboratory environment in a serious game is different from the two-dimensional environment of a laboratory containing a symbol of chemical substances and their composition in a simulation game ( 30 ).
The present study data show that students’ experience with feedback, focus and challenge in the gamified content significantly correlates with their learning. In other words, students learn more when they perceive receiving immediate feedback, gaining points, and being aware of their progress. Additionally, their focus on the game and the absence of distractions in gamification, along with the presence of clues embedded in the game to assist them in solving challenges and understanding new concepts at their own pace, all contribute to their enhanced learning experience. This issue shows the importance of paying attention to these factors in the design of educational games. These findings are consistent with the experts’ opinion that instant feedback is the second key principle in gamification ( 25 ). Also, it has been stated that extended feedback increases the participant’s experience ( 39 ). Points, badges, and scoreboards are all critical elements of feedback that encourage users to cooperate, engage, and interact more ( 25 ). Designing different tasks in the game with increasing difficulty or time pressure can be another essential element in the design. Challenging yet specific goals can motivate people to take action and motivate their level of performance to seek strategies to improve, which can be explained by self-regulation theories ( 23 ).
One of the present study’s limitations is that it was conducted during the Covid-19 pandemic. Hence students could not attend the university to control or accurately measure the duration of using the content. Other factors, such as students' prejudices about using games for learning, little experience in using digital games, and the volume of academic activities at the time of conducting the study, may influence students’ optimal use of the content. Some studies have reported the different effects of gamification in boys and girls, which was not investigated in our research.
Conclusion
The study suggests that gamification can effectively improve the attitude of undergraduate students of medical sciences towards learning statistics. Moreover, gamified learning activities have been found to yield similar results to conventional learning activities in electronic learning environments, making it a time-efficient solution for managing large populations of learners without requiring direct instructor involvement. To optimize the gamification design for better statistics learning outcomes, it is recommended to focus on feedback, challenge, and concentration elements. Future studies can improve the accuracy of the results by increasing sample size and randomly assigning participants to the groups. Additionally, based on our experience the use of gamification promoting for adult learners may require socio-cultural readiness, awareness, and encouragement of both students and teachers.

Abstract
Context:
While most research shows positive effects of gamification, the focus on its adverse effects is considerably smaller and further understanding of these effects is needed.
Objective:
To provide a comprehensive overview on research reporting negative effects of game design elements and to provide insights into the awareness of developers on these effects and into how they could be considered in practice.
Method:
We conducted a systematic mapping study of the negative effects of game design elements on education/learning systems. We also held a focus group discussion with developers of a gamified software, discussing the mapping study results with regard to their awareness and perceptions on the reported negative effects in practice.
Results:
The mapping study revealed 87 papers reporting undesired effects of game design elements. We found that badges, leaderboards, competitions, and points are the game design elements most often reported as causing negative effects. The most cited negative effects were lack of effect, worsened performance, motivational issues, lack of understanding, and irrelevance. The ethical issues of gaming the system and cheating were also often reported. As part of our results, we map the relations between game design elements and the negative effects that they may cause. The focus group revealed that developers were not aware of many of the possible negative effects and that they consider this type of information useful. The discussion revealed their agreement on some of those potential negative effects and also some positive counterparts.
Conclusions:
Gamification, when properly applied, can have positive effects on education/learning software. However, gamified software is also prone to generate harmful effects. Revealing and discussing potentially negative effects can help to make more informed decisions considering their trade-off with respect to the expected benefits.
Introduction
There are plenty of digital platforms for education with a massive number of users, as Duolingo, a language teaching service used by 300 million people worldwide. It boasts that it gives opportunities for people to learn new languages, no matter their financial standing [1].
Duolingo and other services worldwide use gamification – applying game-playing elements to non-game contexts [2] that are typically tedious, discouraging, or inefficient – as a strategy to make their objectives more achievable. It is a strategy with a strong presence in education, and other domains [3], representing a market predicted to grow over 30% through 2019–2025, with an expected value of more than 32 billion in 2025 [4]. This context means that a significant demand for gamified software exists, which calls for software engineers to develop them.
Software development is not a trivial task, and it is more complicated in the case of gamified software solutions. These cases require specialized expertise, going beyond what is expected by an average software engineer [5], for instance:
	•
Effective gamification requires knowledge of human psychology, similar to how serious games require knowledge regarding the subject they deal with. This necessity arises because gamified software aims to change human behavior (see Volkswagen’s Fun Theory videos [6], [7], [8] );
	•
Software engineers need a good understanding of the game design mechanics used as tools and how they contribute to functional and non-functional requirements;
	•
Software engineers face the fact that gamified software has a more limited design space and different objectives to focus on than a game [9].
Hence, selecting the correct gamification elements when designing gamified software is strongly related to requirements engineering and can affect the overall project success [10]. Moreover, defects in requirement are the most expensive to fix when found in production [11], [12]. Indeed, given that gamification deals with changing human behavior, when gamified software is ill-specified, it may not hit the intended target or even be counterproductive, which can have serious consequences when applied to education.
Education is the main target of the present work for important reasons. For instance, approximately 617 million children and adolescents of primary and lower secondary school age (roughly 55% of the global total) have not reached minimum reading and mathematics proficiency in 2015 [13]. The reasons for this global learning crisis are manifold, such as inequality and poverty, but the poor quality of education is one of the critical causes. In this context, applying gamification to education and learning represents a promising means to allow educators to make learning fun, contextualize learning quickly, speak the language of young people, and directly deal with soft skills, improving education quality. However, gamification is also prone to generate harmful effects, usually unknown to designers and engineers. These unexpected effects happen because current gamification research lacks a critical lens capable of exploring unintended design consequences [3].
In this paper we extend our previous systematic mapping study efforts on adverse, unintended gamification effects in education and learning software (such as modified learning management software, coursewares and digital learning environments) [14]. Our search strategy is driven by broad research questions and uses a hybrid search strategy [15], combining database search with backward and forward snowballing. The extension comprises providing more details on the mapping study, complementing the search strategy to gather evidence reported until the end of 2020 (previously 2020 was not completely covered), leading our set of identified studies to increase from 77 to 87. As far as we know, this paper is the most precise, comprehensive, and up-to-date systematic mapping study that organizes evidence regarding the adverse effects of game design elements in gamified education software. Furthermore, we conducted a focus group discussion with developers of a gamified software, discussing the mapping study results with regard to their awareness and perceptions on the reported negative effects.
The mapping study reported several different negative effects, allowing to gather valuable information for software engineers and designers of gamified education/learning software, such as the game design elements that have most often been reported being involved with adverse effects; the most common negative effects on students; the adverse consequences affecting teachers; the relation between game design elements and negative effects; the fields in which research on negative effects has been conducted; and the types of empirical studies conducted to assess the adverse effects.
The study revealed that badges, leaderboards, competitions, and points are the game design elements most often reported as causing negative effects. The most reported negative effects were lack of effect, worsened performance, motivational issues, lack of understanding, and irrelevance. The ethical issues of gaming the system and cheating were also often reported. We also mapped the relations between game design elements and the negative effects that they may cause, so that these effects can be pragmatically considered when designing gamified software.
The focus group revealed that developers were not aware of many of the possible negative effects and that they consider this type of information useful. We report on the discussions held with the practitioners on the use of the identified game design elements and their negative effects. Nevertheless, they recall that this information should be discussed within the context of the gamified software, as in this focus group, to analyze trade-offs between expected positive effects and potential negative ones. Sharing this discussion provides further insights into the usefulness of our mapping study results from the point of view of the practitioners.
The organization of the paper is as follows. Section 2 presents the fundamentals of gamification and gamification effects and related work. We explain our systematic mapping protocol and its execution in Section 3. The results answering the research questions are presented Section 4. In Section 5 we describe the focus group its results. Finally, Sections 6 Limitations, 7 Concluding remarks discuss the limitations and present the conclusions.
Access through your organization
Check access to the full text by signing in through your organization.
Section snippets
Background and related work
In this section we provide the background on gamification, game design elements and its effects. We also present related work on negative effects, including a comparison to other secondary studies that have been conducted and explaining the differences to ours.
Systematic mapping
According to Kitchenham and Charters [46], a systematic mapping is “a broad review of primary studies in a specific topic area that aims to identify what evidence is available on the topic”. We follow the procedures and guidelines described in [46], [47], using a hybrid search strategy [15], combining database search with backward and forward snowballing.
Systematic mapping results
Fig. 1 shows the distribution of the 87 included papers throughout the publication years. Results for each of our research questions based on the extracted data follow.
Focus group: Developer perception on the negative effects of game design elements
To complement our research with practitioner insights, we defined an additional research goal for this extended paper based on the Goal Question Metric template [106]: Analyze the mapping study results on negative effects of game design elements; for the purpose of characterization; with respect to the perception of software developers on the mapped negative effects of game design elements; and the perceived usefulness, ease of use, and intent of adoption of the mapping study results from the
Limitations
One of the limitations of our mapping study concerns potentially missing papers. After analyzing 3458 papers (see the list in our online repository), based on our inclusion and exclusion criteria, we initially included 79 papers. While our combined search strategy allowed identifying significantly more papers than the database search strategy employed by Toda et al. [27] (we identified 34 papers published between 2012 and 2016, against 17), the sets had differences. Therefore, we manually
Concluding remarks
This paper reported a systematic mapping of negative effects of game design elements on education/learning software. Based on data extracted from 87 identified papers, we provided a comprehensive overview with information for software engineers and designers of such software. For instance, we identified the game design elements that have most often been related to adverse effects, the most common negative effects, and the relation between game design elements and negative effects.

How To Use Gamification Effectively
Gamification doesn't just apply to video games. It's everywhere. Teachers use it to educate students. Companies use it to incite sales, and organizations use it to motivate and engage employees. Gamification is a great tool, but some things need to be considered for it to be effective in the workplace. Keep reading to learn more.
What Is Gamification?
Gamification is the use of game mechanics to encourage learners to explore and learn as they move toward an end goal. In a learning environment, the result isn't about winners and losers, or even how your learners play the game. It's about promoting desired behaviors toward learning outcomes.
Sponsored content
Trending eLearning Content Providers
 
Cinecraft Productions
 
CommLab India
 
Ninja Tropic eLearning
The Pros Of Gamification
Let's look at the pros of gamification in the eLearning space.
1. Boosts Learner Engagement
Who doesn't like to play? Even as adults, our basic instinct to play doesn't lessen. Scrolling through slides, clicking next occasionally, and listening to long lectures do not make for a very engaging process. Engaged employees are generally more productive in their job. Gamification transforms boring eLearning courses into engaging and interesting experiences.
Games encourage friendly competition among colleagues. They make learners feel proud completing a course after a series of gamified challenges and tasks. When learners feel emotionally connected to the content, their retention increases. Gamification makes learners want to achieve the learning objectives of a course. They want to know what comes next.
2. Provides Instant Feedback
As learners progress through the game, receiving instant feedback, whether negative or positive, is a huge plus. It keeps them moving forward in their learning progress. Tying feedback to the learning objectives allows learners to monitor their progress throughout the game. It motivates them and makes them want to complete the game successfully.
Leaderboards are another way of offering additional feedback. It lets learners see how they are doing compared to their colleagues.
3. Increases Motivation With Features Such As Badges
Motivation is the driving force that makes learners want to get to the end of the game and complete the learning. Badges are used as rewards at checkpoints throughout the game. They can be as simple as a sticker or more fancy, like a Starbucks gift card for the first 100 employees to complete the game successfully.
Badges can be displayed within the game or on the company's website. They are a great technique because they make the user feel important and skilled. Badges give learners a sense of accomplishment.
The Cons Of Gamification
Now let's look at the cons.
1. Expensive To Develop
Games take longer to develop than traditional Instructional Design. Time is money. It doesn't take much to go over budget because of the extra demand on time. Not to mention, the cost of additional resources used to enhance the gameplay. Animations, graphics, stock photos and videos, music, and sound effects all cost money.
2. Diminished Value Over Time
Not only are games costly to develop, but they are also costly to maintain. It doesn't take long for cool games launched a few years ago to look dated. An outdated game may lead employees to question if the content is outdated as well.
Another disadvantage is the reference value of a game. Games are pretty much one-and-done, meaning that once a learner has completed the game, they don't want to repeat it if they need to reference some content. Depending on the content, a quick reference may also need to be created in addition to the game. This, of course, increases the cost of the project.
3 . Games That Are Only Poorly Masked Quizzes
Games are meant to be fun. Who enjoys taking quizzes and tests? Creating interactive, fun games that don't feel like quizzes pretending to be games takes time and creativity. Assessments in games need to link back to the learning objectives, just like any other eLearning course.
Collecting points or stars may not be enough to motivate adult learners. Tokens, badges, or in-game prizes need to be meaningful for the learner. However, successfully navigating a series of workplace challenges presented in an eLearning course could be so. Real-life scenarios, situations, and challenges that relate to the job are more effective than traditional quizzes and tests.
Conclusion
Games in the workplace are a great tool if used properly. Be careful, though. Not everything needs to be gamified. Instructional Designers need to consider the pros and cons before jumping into game development. Ensuring that it fits with the learning outcomes will lead to a successful game.


Published by
 
Review article
Open access
Under a Creative Commons license
Get rights and content
The use of gamified interventions to enhance social interaction and communication among people with autism spectrum disorder: A systematic review and meta-analysis
Tingxuan Wang a b, Haixia Ma b, Haoyan Ge c, Yuying Sun b, Tyrone Tai-On Kwok b, Xianliang Liu b, Yanping Wang b, Way Kwok Wai Lau b, Wen Zhang b
Show more
Download full issue
Cite
Add to Mendeley
Share
10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2025.105037
The use of gamified interventions to enhance social interaction and communication among people with autism spectrum disorder: A systematic review and meta-analysis
Download full issue
	Article
	Recommended articles
	Cited by (12)
	Metrics
Outline
	Abstract
	Keywords
	What is already known
	What this paper adds
	1. Introduction
	2. Methods
	3. Results
	4. Discussion
	CRediT authorship contribution statement
	Funding
	Declaration of competing interest
	Appendix A. Supplementary data
	References
Show full outline
Figures (7)
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
Show 1 more figure
Tables (3)
	Table 1. Characteristics of included studies (k=20).
	Table 2. Gamified intervention characteristics of included studies (k=20).
	Table 3. Gamification elements summary of included studies (k=20).
Extras (1)
	Supplementary tables
Abstract
Background
Traditional gamified interventions and serious games have been widely employed by therapists and researchers working with people with autism spectrum disorder. Recent studies have also indicated a trend towards technology-based gamification for training behavioral and social skills in autistic people. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of these gamified interventions in enhancing social interaction and communication outcomes among autistic people remains unclear.
Objective
This systematic review and meta-analysis of existing gamified interventions focused on people with autism spectrum disorder aimed to provide an overview of commonly used gamification elements and features for enhancing their social interaction and communication outcomes.
Methods
A total of 11 bibliographic databases were systematically searched from inception to April 2024. Experimental studies, including but not limited to randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental studies (e.g., non-randomized studies, pre-post studies), and pilot studies. Medical Subject Heading terms, keywords, and free words such as ‘ASD’, ‘gamification’, and ‘social interaction and communication’ were used for the search. The extracted data were subjected to a narrative synthesis, and the study outcomes were subjected to a meta-analysis. Gamified elements were classified based on the most widely adopted gamification elements for learning purposes.
Results
Twenty studies involving 349 participants were eligible. Of 297 participants included for descriptive synthesis, 246 (82.8 %) were male, with a mean age at study entry of 11.55 years. Children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorder were the most common target populations (k = 19, 95 %), followed by the general adult population (k = 1, 5 %). Two main themes related to the application of gamification interventions emerged from the included studies: the augmentation of engagement in the intervention and the amplification of the desired interventional outcomes. Commonly used gamification elements included feedback (k = 10, 50 %), rewards (k = 10, 50 %), custom learning (k = 9, 45 %), monitoring (k = 9, 45 %), and personalization (k = 8, 40 %). Four of the included studies applied 5–7 elements in their interventions. Five studies were included in the meta-analysis, showing a positive overall effect of gamified interventions on social interaction and communication (pooled standardized mean difference: 0.46; 95 % CI 0.08, 0.85; I2 0%).
Conclusion
This study offers a comprehensive review of gamification elements and gamified interventions currently used in social interaction and communication skills among people with autism spectrum disorder. The potential benefits of included studies targeting social interaction and communication skills highlight the need for further in-depth investigation in this group. Future randomized controlled trials with more comprehensive development and trials that apply game-related design are suggested.
Keywords
Autism spectrum disorder
; 
Gamification
; 
Game
; 
Communication
; 
Social interaction
	Previous article in this issue
	Next article in this issue
What is already known
	•
The implementation of gamified interventions is feasible for training and enhancing behavioral skills.
	•
The effectiveness of gamification interventions in improving social skills among people with autism spectrum disorder remains unclear.
What this paper adds
	•
Gamification has been used to promote social interaction and communication skills among the people with autism spectrum disorder for three main purposes: training, learning, and therapy.
	•
The most frequently used gamification elements for improving social interaction and communication skills among people with autism spectrum disorder include feedback, rewards, custom learning, monitoring, personalization, levels, virtual avatars, cooperation, narratives, virtual reality, and remote control.
	•
Future randomized controlled trials with more comprehensive development and game-related designs targeting the people with autism spectrum disorder are recommended.
1. Introduction
Autism spectrum disorder is widespread, with an incidence of approximately one in 100 among children (Maenner et al., 2020). According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), autism spectrum disorder is a complex neurodevelopmental condition characterized by persistent impairments in reciprocal social interaction, deficits in both verbal and nonverbal social communication, and the presence of restricted and repetitive behavioral patterns (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). The behavioral and interactive challenges observed in autistic people are attributed to disrupted perceptual processing, as these people may not perceive or interpret sensory information in the same way as neurotypical children (Hassan et al., 2011). These core characteristics often lead to limited opportunities for interaction and communication in children with autism spectrum disorder, which hinders their learning and development. Evidence from a systematic review revealed that social interaction and communication accounted for 59.7 % of existing intervention studies on autism spectrum disorder and were the primary outcomes (Camargo et al., 2019). These social challenges can significantly affect autistic people’ ability to establish and maintain social relationships, participate in daily activities, and engage effectively in social interactions (LaGasse, 2017).
Although there is currently no definitive curative therapy for autism spectrum disorder, it is crucial to implement effective interventions to train and improve autistic children's social and communication functioning at early stages (American Psychiatric Association, 2021), as the progression of autism spectrum disorder can affect a child's learning and communication skills later in life. A variety of interventions have been developed to bolster autistic children's social competence (Chung et al., 2024), including occupational therapy (Grandisson et al., 2020), speech and language therapy (Hoque et al., 2009), and social skills training (Williams White et al., 2007). These behavioral and educational interventions are commonly applied in clinical settings by professionally trained experts (Walsh et al., 2023). However, the effectiveness of these interventions can vary significantly based on the severity of symptoms and the impacts of autism spectrum disorder across people (Zwaigenbaum et al., 2019). Therefore, the effectiveness of these interventions is not always guaranteed. Factors such as children's engagement in training and the child–trainer relationship may confound intervention outcomes (Javed et al., 2020). Additionally, disparities in intervention practices across different settings (Binns et al., 2021), or a shortage of skilled training professionals (Cappadocia and Weiss, 2011) can further complicate the effectiveness of these interventions.
Gamification, defined as the application of game design and gamified elements in nongame contexts (Deterding et al., 2011), has emerged as a promising approach for autism spectrum disorder treatment over the past decade (Ern, 2014). Serious games and traditional interventions involving specific off-the-shelf games (e.g., exergames, video games) have been widely used by healthcare therapists and researchers for managing psychiatric conditions associated with autism spectrum disorder (Abd-Alrazaq et al., 2022; Atherton and Cross, 2021; Malinverni et al., 2017). Recent studies have also shown an increasing trend in the use of gamification with technological resources (e.g., virtual reality, apps) to treat autism spectrum disorder symptoms (Penev et al., 2021; Ke et al., 2022; Yuan and Ip, 2018). Despite the varying design purposes, gamified interventions appear to be feasible for training and enhancing behavioral skills, either by motivating engagement in activities or fostering cognitive, psychological, and social outcomes in autism spectrum disorder treatment (Camargo et al., 2019). A recent scoping review on gamification through mobile applications indicated that communication skills are one of the primary targets for people with autism spectrum disorder; the review also highlighted potential benefits in enhancing intervention effectiveness and increasing user motivation and engagement (Mahmoudi et al., 2024). Using key game elements such as rewards, challenges, and interactive scenarios may make the learning process of social and communication skills more engaging. These gamification elements can enhance the motivation and ability of autistic people by providing a natural and enjoyable format for participating in activities and acquiring specific skills, thus resulting in teaching- and learning-based interventions (Camargo et al., 2019).
Gamified interventions may be a suitable approach for autism spectrum disorder treatment in a more naturalistic and emergent setting because of the heightened visual processing capabilities of people with autism spectrum disorder (Atherton and Cross, 2021). However, challenges persist, as there is limited evidence suggesting that autistic people exposed to gamified interventions can effectively transfer such learning or training skills to real-life experiences (Camargo et al., 2019). Additionally, heterogeneity in game designs has influenced the outcomes of previous interventions (Malinverni et al., 2017). The reasons for these gaps between research on gamified interventions and their practical application among people with autism spectrum disorder remain unclear. Furthermore, the effectiveness of gamification interventions in improving social skills—particularly social interaction and communication—among people with autism spectrum disorder is still uncertain. Although a 2019 review provided a qualitative synthesis on this topic (Camargo et al., 2019), it focused on several outcomes of gamified interventions for people with autism spectrum disorder without examining their overall effectiveness (Camargo et al., 2019). Due to the contradictory findings in the literature and the inconclusive results from previous reviews, this study aimed to conduct a comprehensive review of gamified interventions for people with autism spectrum disorder. This systematic review focused primarily on the commonly used gamification elements and features to assess the efficacy of these interventions in enhancing social interaction, communication skills, competence, or abilities. More specifically, the current review aimed to address the following research questions:
Research question 1: What are the features of gamified interventions used to improve social interactions and communication among people with autism spectrum disorder?
Research question 2: What are the most frequently used gamification elements for improving social interactions and communication skills among people with autism spectrum disorder?
Research question 3: What is the effectiveness of gamification interventions in improving social interactions and communication skills in people with autism spectrum disorder?
2. Methods
2.1. Guidelines and registration
This systematic review was conducted following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 statement (Page et al., 2021). The study protocol was registered on PROSPERO (CRD42023446670).
2.2. Literature search strategy
We searched the PubMed, PsycINFO, Embase, MEDLINE, CINAHL, Scopus, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, ScienceDirect, ACM Digital Library, and IEEE Explore databases from inception to April 2024. Medical Subject Heading terms, keywords, and free words such as ‘Autism’, ‘ASD’, ‘autism spectrum disorder’, ‘gamification’, and ‘social interaction’ and ‘communication’ were used to search the databases. The literature search was restricted to original research papers written in English. Additionally, the reference lists of the included studies were manually searched to detect potentially eligible studies. The search strategies are provided in Appendix Table S1.
2.3. Eligibility criteria
The inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) Study design: experimental studies, including but not limited to randomized studies, quasi-experimental studies (e.g., non-randomized studies, pre-post studies), and pilot studies; (2) Participants: children or adults diagnosed with autism diagnosis; parents, guardians, and teachers of children with autism spectrum disorder; (3) Intervention: gamification or any game-based elements; and (4) Outcomes: social interaction or social communication outcomes (whether primary or secondary, measured as skills, competence, responsiveness, etc.). Detailed information about the inclusion and exclusion criteria is provided in Appendix Table S2.
2.4. Study selection and data extraction
The following information was extracted from all included studies: study characteristics (author, publication year, country/region, study design, data collection period, recruitment method, study outcomes, sample size), participant characteristics (participant sex and age), interventions (e.g., gamification elements), and outcomes (e.g., measures of social interaction and communication). For studies with more than one intervention group (e.g., gamification was used in several intervention groups), a comparison was conducted to determine which intervention group was more relevant to the theme and purpose of this systematic review, thus helping us to identify which gamification element had the strongest impact on study outcomes. Two reviewers (TW and WZ) independently extracted the data from each included stud, with a 90 % overlap. Disagreements were resolved through discussions with the research team.
2.5. Quality appraisal
The quality of the included studies was evaluated using the Risk of Bias in Non-randomized Studies of Interventions (ROBINS-I) tool (Sterne et al., 2016) and the Risk of Bias 2 (RoB2) tool (Sterne et al., 2019). The quality appraisal outcomes were categorized and displayed for each included study, along with a summary of each risk of bias domain derived from the assessment tools. This process was independently conducted by two reviewers (TW and WZ), with any disagreements resolved through discussion with the research team.
2.6. Data analysis
The included studies were managed using EndNote 20. Extracted data were synthesized using a narrative approach in Microsoft Excel. Gamified interventions were classified according to the most widely adopted gamification key elements for learning purposes (Jackson, 2016). For the main results, measures of gamified interventions focused on social interaction and communication were summarized using descriptive statistics. Social interaction and communication outcomes were combined and compared via meta-analysis when appropriate. Due to differences in study design, settings, and methodologies among the included studies, a random-effects model was used for the meta-analysis (Zhai and Guyatt, 2024). Heterogeneity among studies was assessed using Cochran's Q and I2 statistics. Sensitivity analysis was conducted using the leave-one-out method, which involves excluding each study individually to identify potential sources of heterogeneity. When significant heterogeneity was detected, subgroup analysis was performed to quantify differences between subgroups. Meta-analysis was conducted using Review Manager (version 5.4).
3. Results
3.1. Study selection
Initially, a total of 4499 records were identified. After duplicates were removed, the titles and abstracts of 2029 records were screened. A total of 2006 records were excluded based on the title and abstract screening. The full texts of the remaining 464 records were reviewed, and 444 items were further excluded for the following reasons: 63 records did not examine the target population, 37 records did not examine gamified interventions, 16 records did not report the use of gamification in the intervention group, and the remaining items were removed because of the ineligible study design, study setting, or lack of full text available for screening. Ultimately, 20 studies were included in this systematic review. The details of the screening process are shown in a PRISMA flowchart in Fig. 1.
 
	Download: Download high-res image (347KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Searching process following PRISMA flow diagram.
3.2. Quality assessment
The methodological quality of each included study was assessed. For randomized controlled trials (k = 3), the domain with the highest risk of bias was selective reporting bias, with two of the three studies showing a high risk of bias in this domain (Teo et al., 2021; Hu et al., 2022). For non-randomized studies (k = 17), there was a low to moderate risk of bias related to reporting bias and measurements of the study outcomes. Overall, only one randomized controlled trial had a low risk of bias (Jouen et al., 2017). Twelve non-randomized studies had more than four categories rated as low risk of bias, indicating an overall low or moderate risk of bias. Detailed information on the quality assessment is provided in the Appendix (Tables S3 and S4).
3.3. Characteristics of the included studies
Among the 20 included studies (Table 1), more than half were conducted in developed countries or regions, including the U.S. (k = 8, 40 %) and the U.K. (k = 3, 15 %). Only three studies (15 %) were randomized controlled trials (Chung et al., 2016; Hu et al., 2022; Teo et al., 2021), three (15 %) were pilot studies (Amoss et al., 2020; Boccanfuso et al., 2017; Wainer et al., 2014), and most of the remaining studies were evaluations (k = 13, 65 %) of previously developed programs (e.g., game, software, or system). These evaluations used pre-post experimental designs with or without a control group. A total of 349 participants were included in this review. Twenty studies involving 349 participants were eligible. Of 297 participants included for descriptive synthesis, 246 (82.8 %) were male, with a mean age at study entry of 11.55 yrs. Children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorder were the primary subjects (k = 19, 95 %), followed by the general adult population (k = 1, 5 %) (García-Villamisar et al., 2017). Among the studies targeting children and adolescents, two (10 %) included only boys (Barajas et al., 2017; Shamir et al., 2023). Nearly half of the included studies were conducted in clinical settings (k = 9, 45 %). Four nonclinical studies were conducted in special schools (20 %), two in community services (10 %), and two in autism organizations (10 %).
Table 1. Characteristics of included studies (k = 20).
Study	Country/
Region	Study design	Sample size	Participant information	Data collection period	Theoretical framework	Recruitment method	Outcomes/
measurement
[1] Amoss et al., 2020
U.S.	Pilot	10	Children aged 9–17 years	Unspecific	Unspecific	Online (e.g., webpage and social media)	Social communication
(SCQ)
[2] Barajas et al., 2017
Canada	Pre-post	9	Boys aged 6–15 years	Unspecific	Unspecific	Community organization of ASD services	Social interaction
(an index)
[3] Bent et al., 2021
U.S.	Pre-post	6	Students	January to June 2019	Unspecific	From a special school	Social competence
(SSIS)
[4] Bernardini et al., 2014
U.K.	Pre-post	29	Children	Unspecific	Unspecific	From special schools	Social communication
(a probability of responding)
[5] Boccanfuso et al., 2017
U.S.	Pilot	11	Children aged 3–6 years	Unspecific	Unspecific	Telephone invitation and face-to-face recruitment	Social communication
(VABS)
[6] Chung et al., 2016
Korea	RCT	20	Adolescents aged 13–18 years	Unspecific	CBT	From a hospital	Social communication
(SCQ)
[7] Friedrich et al., 2015
U.S.	Pre-post	13	Children and adolescents aged 6–17 years	Unspecific	Neurofeedback training	NA	Social interaction
(VABS)
[8] García-Villamisar et al., 2017
Spain	Pre-post with control	37	Adults	Unspecific	Therapeutic recreation program	From a health service centre	Social interaction
(VABS)
[9] Guivarch et al., 2017
U.S.	Pre-post	6	Children aged 9–10 years	2015/2016 school year	Therapeutic strategies	From a hospital	Social skill
(CARS)
[10] Hu et al., 2022
China	RCT	12	Children aged 0–3 years	Unspecific	NA	From a rehabilitation centre	Social communication
(CARS)
[11] Jouen et al., 2017
U.K.	Single blind matched controlled exploratory study	14	Children aged 5–8 years	Unspecific	Early start denver model	From two clinics	Social communication
(VABS)
[12] Ke et al., 2022
U.S.	A multiple baseline across participants design	7	Children aged 7–14 years	Unspecific	Technology-based educational program	From an autism centre	Social communication (SCQ)
[13] Lok et al., 2022
Macau	A repeated measures design	6	Children aged 8–9 years	Unspecific	Board game intervention	From a hospital	Social communication
(momentary time)
[14] Ma and Yang, 2021
China	Pre-post with control	20	Children aged 6–13 years	Unspecific	Game psychology	From a hospital	Social skill
(CARS))
[15] Nekar et al., 2022
Korea	Pre-post	14	Children aged 6–16 years	Unspecific	Gabe-based training	From an autism centre	Social skill
(SRS)
[16] Penev et al., 2021
U.S.	Feasibility study	72	Children aged 3–12 years	Unspecific	Gabe-based therapy	Online (e.g., autism app userbase, and Facebook)	Social impairment
(SRS)
[17] Shamir et al., 2023
Israel	Pre-post with control	18	Boys aged 5–9 years	Unspecific	Metacognition prompts	From a special school	Social skill
(eye-contact measure)
[18] Teo et al., 2021
Singapore	Feasibility of RCT-waitlist	10	Children aged 8–12 years	2016 to 2018	Social cognition training	From an autism centre	Social responsiveness
(SRS)
[19] Travers et al., 2018
U.S.	Pre-post	29	Children and adolescents aged 7–17 years	Unspecific	Videogame intervention	From a community	Social responsiveness
(SRS)
[20] Wainer et al., 2014
U.K.	Pilot	6	Children aged 6–8 years	Unspecific	Unspecific	From a special school	Social skills
(a few tasks)
Note. ASD: autism spectrum disorder; RCT: randomized controlled trial; CBT: cognitive behavioral therapy; SCQ: social communication questionnaire; SSIS: social skill improvement system; VABS: Vineland adaptive behavior scale; CARS: childhood autism rating scale; SRS: social responsive scale; NA: not applicable.
3.3.1. Research question 1: Gamified intervention features
Regarding the application of gamification for interventions, two main themes emerged from the 20 included studies (Fig. 2): augmentation of engagement in the intervention and amplification of desired interventional outcomes. Table 2 provides detailed information on the gamified intervention components for each study. The majority of the studies (k = 11, 55 %) examined technology resources delivered via digital platforms (e.g., computers or graphic interfaces). Gamification was applied to interventions among the people with autism spectrum disorder for three main purposes: training (k = 15, 75 %), learning (k = 3, 15 %), and therapy (k = 2, 10 %). Training was defined as designing content to improve skills and competence, learning involved incorporating educational content for students with autism spectrum disorder, and therapy was mainly used by clinical professionals. Most studies employed traditional gamification approaches (16/20, 80.0 %), including gameplay (k = 4, 25 %), exergames (k = 1, 6.25 %), video games (n = k, 12.5 %), stand-alone programs (k = 3, 18.75 %), or developed software/systems (k = 6, 37.5 %), which were mainly implemented via computers or TV screens. Conversely, technology-based approaches, which accounted for a smaller proportion (4/20, 20.0 %), included virtual reality (k = 1, 25 %), mobile-based applications (k = 1, 25 %), and humanoid robots (k = 2, 50 %). Previously developed technology resources were often used as delivery mediums for gamified interventions. In terms of intervention dosage, with the exception of two studies (10 %) that included only a single delivery (Barajas et al., 2017; Amoss et al., 2020), most studies (k = 18, 90 %) involved several intervention sessions per week (e.g., 2–3 sessions) over a relatively long period (e.g., 1–6 months). With the exception of one feasibility study that measured outcomes 4 weeks after intervention implementation (Teo et al., 2021), none of the remaining studies included follow-up assessments.
 
	Download: Download high-res image (299KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Two themes with number of gamification elements.
Table 2. Gamified intervention characteristics of included studies (k = 20).
Study	Gamified purpose	Gamified intervention	Delivery method	Delivery device	Intervention frequency	Intervention duration	Control group	Follow-up
Amoss 2020	Training	Cyberball	Ball-toss game	Computer	2 times with different conditions	NA	NA	NA
Barajas 2017	Therapy	Serious game	Serious game	Computer	1 time	1 h	Non-computer block game (e.g., card)	NA
Bent et al., 2021
Training	Group-based social skill program	Video games	Computer	20–30 min/session/week	16 weeks	NA	NA
Bernardini et al., 2014
Training	Video games	Video games	TV screen	10–20 min, several times a week	6 weeks	NA	NA
Boccanfuso et al., 2017
Therapy	Robot-assisted game intervention	Imitation games	Robot	30 min/session;
2 sessions/week	6 weeks	Speech therapy without robot	NA
Chung et al., 2016
Training	Game-CBT	Prosocial online game	Computer	1 h/day;
3 times/week	6 weeks	Offline-CBT	NA
Friedrich et al., 2015
Training	Social mirroring game	Game	Computer	1 h/session;
2–3 sessions/week	6–10 weeks	NA	NA
García-Villamisar et al., 2017
Therapy	TR-EF activities	Video games	Computer	1 h/session;
5 sessions/week	40 weeks	Waitlist group	NA
Guivarch et al., 2017
Learning	Cooperative games	NA	NA	NA	22 weeks	NA	NA
Hu et al., 2022
Training	Family sports game	Several sports game	NA	NA	6 months	Training of rehabilitation institutions	NA
Jouen et al., 2017
Training	TAU + GOLISH intervention	Serious game	Graphic interface via computer	30 min/session;
5 sessions/week	6 months	Treatment as usual (TAU)	NA
Ke et al., 2022
Training	VR-based social skill training	VR game	Computer and head-mounted display	0.75–1.25 h/session;
1–2 sessions/week	16–31 sessions	NA	NA
Lok et al., 2022
Learning (game play)	Board game intervention	2 board games	NA	15 min/session; 14 sessions in total	NA	NA	NA
Ma and Yang, 2021
Training	Somatosensory rehabilitation training	Rehabilitation game system	Computer	4 game modules	6 months	No intervention	NA
Nekar et al., 2022
Training	Game-based cognitive-motor training program	Video games	Computer	30 min/session;
2 sessions/week	3 weeks	NA	NA
Penev et al., 2021
Training	Home-based mobile intervention using game app	Mobile app game	Smartphone	At least 90 s/session/day, 3 days/week	4 weeks	NA	NA
Shamir et al., 2023
Training	Metacognitive guidance using a developed game software	A developed game software	Screen	30 min/session;
2 sessions/week	3 weeks	No metacognitive guidance	NA
Teo et al., 2021
Training	Brain-computer interface (BCI)-based attention and social cognition training program	Graphic game and training games	Computer, eye tracker, and headband	30–45 min/session;
3 sessions/week	8 weeks	Untreated waitlist group	4 weeks
Travers et al., 2018
Training	Video game training	Video game software	TV screen	60 min/session;
3 sessions/week	6 weeks	NA	NA
Wainer et al., 2014
Learning (game play)	Collaborative video game by humanoid robot	Video game	Humanoid robot	1 time	NA	NA	NA
Note. NA: not applicable; CBT: cognitive behavioral therapy; VR: virtual reality.
3.3.2. Research question 2: Gamification elements
The synthesized results highlighted a range of commonly used gamification elements from the included studies to enhance social interaction and communication skills among autistic people. Based on existing game taxonomies (Schöbel et al., 2020), three categories of game elements were summarized (Table 3 and Fig. 3): construction elements, dynamics, and motivational elements. The most frequently used game elements were feedback (k = 10, 50 %), rewards (k = 10, 50 %), custom learning (k = 9, 45 %), monitoring (k = 9, 45 %), personalization (k = 8, 40 %), levels (k = 6, 30 %), virtual avatars (k = 5, 25 %), cooperation (k = 4, 20 %), narratives (k = 3, 15 %), virtual reality (k = 3, 15 %), and remote control (k = 2, 10 %). When gamified interventions were developed (Fig. 4), most studies incorporated at least four elements. Four studies (40 %) applied an average of 5–7 gamified elements in their intervention gameplay settings. Across different target groups (Fig. 5), rewards, monitoring, levels, and custom learning were the most commonly used elements in both children and adults.
Table 3. Gamification elements summary of included studies (k = 20).
Study	Construction elements	Dynamics	Motivational elements
	Feedback	Level	Avatar	Narratives	Virtual reality	Monitoring	Remote control	Rewards	Cooperation	Personalization	Custom learning
Amoss 2020	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No
Barajas 2017	Yes	Yes	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No
Bent et al., 2021
Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	Yes	Yes
Bernardini et al., 2014
No	No	Yes	No	No	Yes	Yes	No	No	No	Yes
Boccanfuso et al., 2017
No	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	Yes
Chung et al., 2016
No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	No
Friedrich et al., 2015
Yes	No	Yes	Yes	No	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	Yes
García-Villamisar et al., 2017
No	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	Yes
Guivarch et al., 2017
NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA
Hu et al., 2022
NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA
Jouen et al., 2017
Yes	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	No	Yes	Yes
Ke et al., 2022
No	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No
Lok et al., 2022
No	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes
Ma and Yang, 2021
Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	Yes
Nekar et al., 2022
Yes	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	Yes	No	No
Penev et al., 2021
Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	No
Shamir et al., 2023
No	No	Yes	Yes	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No
Teo et al., 2021
Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No
Travers et al., 2018
NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	Yes	NA	NA	No	NA	NA
Wainer et al., 2014
Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	Yes	No	Yes
Note. NA: not available.
 
	Download: Download high-res image (160KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Number of included studies containing gamification elements.
 
	Download: Download high-res image (95KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Number of gamification elements coded from identified studies
Note. NA: not applicable.
 
	Download: Download high-res image (176KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Number of gamification elements between children and adults.
3.3.3. Research question 3: Overall effect of gamification on social interaction and communication
Of the 20 included studies, only five were subjected to meta-analysis, as they reported gamified interventions with pre-post data (Chung et al., 2016, Jouen et al., 2017, Nekar et al., 2022, Ma and Yang, 2021, Ke et al., 2022). Studies were excluded for reasons such as unavailability of data for quantitative analysis (k = 7), partially missing data (k = 3), inapplicable data (k = 2), and reverse outcome measurements (k = 3). A random-effects model was implemented to measure social interaction and communication as overall study outcomes, and standardized mean differences (SMD) were calculated (Fig. 6). Publication bias was also not assessed due to the lack of power and the inclusion of fewer than 10 studies (Dalton et al., 2016). After sensitivity analysis using the leave-one-out method, the pooled SMD was 0.46 (95 % CI 0.08, 0.85; I2 0%). Subgroup analysis was performed to examine differences between different study designs (e.g., randomized controlled trials and non-randomized controlled trials). The results showed an improvement in social interaction and communication among participants in the randomized group (Fig. 7; SMD 0.96, 95 % CI 0.02, 1.89; p 0.05), while no significant differences were observed between the two subgroups in study design (SMD 0.46; 95 % CI 0.08, 0.85; p 0.26, I2 21.0 %). For those studies with a significant overall effect on social interaction and communication (k = 5), the most commonly applied gamification elements were rewards (k = 4, 80 %), personalization (k = 4, 80 %), and the use of virtual avatars (k = 4, 80 %).
 
	Download: Download high-res image (193KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 6. The forest plot of pre-post gamification intervention on social interaction and communication
Note. SD: standard deviation; CI: confidence interval.
 
	Download: Download high-res image (282KB)
	Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Subgroup analysis of study design on social interaction and communication
Note. SD: standard deviation; CI: confidence interval.
4. Discussion
4.1. Principal findings
This is the first systematic review and meta-analysis to examine the impacts of gamified interventions on social interaction and communication among people with autism spectrum disorder. This study reviewed the literature on gamified interventions specific to autism spectrum disorder and summarized the commonly used gamified elements for improving social interaction and communication skills among autistic people. In total, 20 studies were reviewed. The findings suggest that gamified interventions can be beneficial alternatives for promoting social interaction and communication skills among autistic people, particularly for training and learning purposes.
4.2. Major elements used for gamification design
Construction elements refer to the core components involved in developing and designing blocks within the information system of a gamification concept (Schöbel et al., 2020). This study identified that construction elements, including feedback, monitoring, levels, and the use of avatars, were the most frequently applied gamification components. These findings align with previous studies on gamified interventions in health behavioral sciences, which described similar gamification construction elements (Cheng et al., 2019; Sardi et al., 2017). In most gamified interventions reviewed here, feedback was structured as predetermined goals or progress maker during gameplay. Feedback was typically delivered via multisensory output stimuli (e.g., text, sound, video, or virtual reality) directed at the audience (Fröhlich and Wachsmuth, 2014) or through tangible tokens (e.g., physical items or tests provided to the audience) as part of the intervention (Camargo et al., 2019). Other commonly used elements included some degree of monitoring (9/19, 47.4 %) and varying levels of gameplay difficulty (7/19, 36.8 %). Additional construction features identified in this review included narratives, the use of virtual avatars, and remote control. Additionally, one study also employed virtual reality techniques to create a more immersive environment, enhancing participant engagement. These construction elements were integrated into gamified interventions using strategies tailored to customize training or learning outcomes, often in combination with external control. For example, child–teacher or child–parent devices were used to facilitate monitoring, making gameplay more accessible and manageable. The involvement of a third-party guardian allowed for the recognition of individual cognitive responses during the intervention process and enabled better preparation for subsequent sessions by designers or guardians.
Dynamics, which refer to the process by which construction elements are experienced by game users based on individual characteristics, were also analyzed. Commonly reported dynamics included rewards, cooperation, and personalization. Rewards earned from game scenarios were often used to make feedback and the learning process more engaging and satisfying for users (Plass et al., 2015). In contrast, the included studies did not consistently separate other gamified elements, such as points, badges, or leaderboards, which are often present in gameplay settings. This discrepancy may be attributed to differing inclusion criteria for gamified elements across studies (Cheng et al., 2019; Camargo et al., 2019; Williams White et al., 2007). Several studies also explored personalization, defined as the subjective selection of game tasks or levels based on the individual response states of participants. This approach recognizes that each autistic child may have unique preferences and cognitive symptoms (Kamaruzaman et al., 2016). As a motivational element, custom learning (10/19, 52.6 %) was also observed frequently in this study for social skill learning purposes. The widespread use of rewards and feedback underscores their importance in fostering behavior change through game-based learning. These elements encourage participants to engage more actively in the gameplay environment (Plass et al., 2015). Additionally, these elements were used to motivate autistic children to construct narratives that improved communication and interaction (Boccanfuso et al., 2017; Ma and Yang, 2021).
Most studies included in this review used gamification for training and learning purposes rather than as a medium for social competition, which has been observed in other studies (Cheng et al., 2019; Dindar et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2023). This distinction may reflect differences in technological development between autism-focused gamification and other health-related gamification areas. In the included studies, gamification for autism was primarily designed to train social interaction skills through frequent and immediate application, reinforcing specific behavioral patterns (de Oliveira Barros et al., 2014), rather than focusing on complex social competition (Cheng et al., 2019). For studies targeting cognitive practice, elements such as personalization, customer learning, and monitoring were commonly used. For interventions aim at physical activities or motor skills (Nekar et al., 2022; Wainer et al., 2014), rewards, monitoring, feedback, and levels of difficulty were more prevalent (Camargo et al., 2019).
4.3. Gamification effectiveness on intervention outcomes
One major challenge identified in the included studies was the limited applicability of results from current interventions designed to enhance social communication and interaction for autistic children. Due to the specific population examined, the number of participants in most studies was small, especially in pilot studies or evaluations of newly developed systems or programs (Boccanfuso et al., 2017; Barajas et al., 2017). Furthermore, a lack of well-designed interventions with sufficient theoretical frameworks was evident, as most studies did not report frameworks derived from existing autism therapies. This limitation likely contributed to the modest results seen in the meta-analysis. As observed in previous behavioral interventions using digital technologies (Suzuki et al., 2021; Doherty and Low, 2008; Kwasnicka et al., 2016), changes in skills and behaviors often diminish without sustained delivery of stimuli over time. Insufficient intervention dosage may also limit the long-term impacts of gamified interventions on social interaction and communication skills, as evidenced in the studies included in this review.
Despite these challenges, the reviewed studies demonstrated promising improvements in social interaction and communication measures, indicating the potential for autistic children and adolescents to engage in social exchanges with peers (Boccanfuso et al., 2017). One study found that prosocial online game-based cognitive behavioral therapy intervention showed similar efficacy to traditional face-to-face offline interventions for enhancing sociality in adolescents with autism spectrum disorder (Chung et al., 2016). Consistent findings were reported in earlier studies using computer-based cognitive behavioral therapy in video game formats (Hillier et al., 2007; Golan and Baron-Cohen, 2006), demonstrating that computer-assisted cognitive behavioral therapy using game elements can provide a virtual space for more opportunities for practicing social cognition training, social interaction, and sociality education in autistic children and adolescents (Kandalaft et al., 2013; Crowder and Merritte, 2013). To date, the integration of technology-based elements, such as virtual reality, mobile applications, and humanoid robot systems, by making use of online resources into clinical procedures remains promising but also represents a theoretical proposition (Pottle, 2019; Rahimi et al., 2018). Identifying such methodologies that may benefit transformation in autism spectrum disorder treatment presents a significant challenge with directions for future research (Pottle, 2019). These findings indicate that the motivations for behavior changes through game-based learning are far from dominant and that newly developed technology-based gamification alternatives are being applied over time in the field of autism.
4.4. Study limitations
One of the major limitations of this study was the small proportion of quantitative results available for social interaction and communication outcomes for meta-analysis. Nevertheless, this study aimed to review the current status of the literature on gamification and to summarize gamified elements in the development process applied in autistic people. On the basis of predetermined purposes, a few studies that focused on the development mechanism but lacked detailed descriptions of their evaluation process (e.g., intervention progress on the developed game-based system/software) were also included. The study outcome was restricted to a limited number of studies for quantitative synthesis, considering heterogeneity issues. The low quality of the meta-analysis results may be potentially due to the small sample size and the feasibility of performing studies on the outcome measures with diverse gamified intervention designs. Combining these different studies into a single meta-analysis could introduce bias in interpreting the effectiveness of gamification intervention.
In addition, this systematic review aimed to summarize gamified interventions focused on people with autism spectrum disorder but did not examine the effectiveness of gamifications that involve other autistic training purposes, such as basic education, daily activities, and motor skills.
4.5. Practical and research implications
Although the studies identified in this review suggest that gamification may be a promising tool for training social interaction and communication skills in people with autism spectrum disorder, definitive conclusions regarding the effectiveness of gamified intervention could not be drawn because of the small samples included in the meta-analysis from this review. Several suggestions are provided for future research and practice. First, this review encompasses a broad range of gamification strategies by including experimental studies from engineering or computer science areas that focus on the development mechanisms of game systems, software, or applications. However, these evaluation studies usually provide only brief information rather than comprehensive details regarding their evaluation. The lack of information on testing or evaluation procedures could undermine the consistency of the quantitative synthesis results. Second, some studies employed indirect formats of measurement tools (Barajas et al., 2017), making it difficult to accurately capture the real-world experiences of autistic populations with gamification and their behavioral changes. A lack of a control group (in many identified studies in our review) results in an unclear understanding of how autistic people's behavior in response to gamification. Future studies should replicate the procedures with more thorough considerations regarding the assessment, intervention, and, ideally, inclusion of a comparison group. In addition, it should be noted that autism is a wide spectrum, with people exhibiting varying levels of severity (American Psychiatric Association, 2013; Hassan et al., 2011). A better theoretical background for supporting gamification is recommended. Owing to the small sample size of the autistic population included in this review, it is challenging to draw a conclusive summary. The heterogeneous nature of autism spectrum disorder makes it difficult to propose a single, universally effective gamification strategy. Future practices are recommended to expand to a larger range of clinical and community populations, with a more detailed focus on specific autism cases or subtypes of autism spectrum disorder.
4.6. Conclusion
The findings of this review indicate that the existing game-based studies focused on managing and implementing gamification to improve social skills and competence. With reference to the generated research questions, this study covered 20 studies with varying study designs, and two main themes were summarized including the augmentation of engagement in the intervention, and the amplification of the desired interventional outcomes. Secondly, the most frequently used game elements in our study were feedback, rewards, custom learning, monitoring, and personalization. Lastly, this review found promising enhancement in social interaction and communication measures among included studies. Future randomized controlled trials with more comprehensive development and trials that apply game-related design among people with autism spectrum disorder are suggested.

Effectiveness of a gamified educational application on attention and academic performance in children with ADHD: an 8-week randomized controlled trial
	 
JiaMin Dai 1

	A
Ailifeire Wufue 2
	 
Hong Zhang 2*

	1. College of Statistics and Data Science, Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics, Urumqi, China
	2. Student Affairs Department, Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics, Urumqi, China
Abstract
Introduction: 
Gamified educational interventions are promising tools to improve attention and academic outcomes in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and data on long-term maintenance remain limited. We evaluated a specifically designed gamified educational application against a non-gamified digital program matched for content and duration.
Methods: 
Eighty children aged 6–12 years with clinically diagnosed ADHD were randomly assigned to a gamified intervention group (n = 40) or a control group (n = 40). Both groups completed identical learning tasks (calculation, text comprehension, phonological exercises) over 8 weeks; only the intervention group received gamification elements (immediate feedback, rewards, level-based challenges). Baseline and post-intervention assessments included visual and auditory reaction time tests, a continuous performance test, and standardized academic tests in reading, writing, and mathematics. A follow-up assessment was scheduled 8 weeks after training.
Results: 
After 8 weeks, the gamified group showed greater improvements than the control group in visual and auditory reaction times and sustained attention (all p < 0.01), as well as in reading, writing, and mathematics scores. Training time was comparable between groups.
Discussion: 
An 8-week gamified educational intervention significantly enhanced attention and academic performance in children with ADHD compared with a non-gamified program, suggesting that well-designed gamified applications may serve as engaging, accessible tools to support cognitive and educational outcomes.
Introduction
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder characterized primarily by inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity. This condition not only negatively impacts children’s daily functioning but also significantly undermines their academic performance. Prior research has shown that children with ADHD often experience a range of academic challenges, such as reduced attention span, impaired executive function, and problematic classroom behaviors, all of which contribute to academic underachievement (Daley & Birchwood, 2010; Martinussen et al., 2005; Frazier et al., 2004). Specifically, children with ADHD tend to struggle to maintain attention, are easily distracted by their environment, and demonstrate low task completion rates, particularly in subjects such as mathematics and reading (Antonini et al., 2016). Moreover, impulsive and hyperactive behaviors further exacerbate classroom behavioral issues, thereby negatively affecting the overall learning environment.
Current interventions for ADHD primarily include pharmacological treatments and behavioral therapies. Although medications, such as central nervous system stimulants, have been shown to improve attention and classroom behavior to some extent, their long-term effectiveness remains uncertain, with limited impact on academic achievement. Most benefits are confined to short-term behavioral and task-related improvements (Molina et al., 2009; Prasad et al., 2013). Behavioral therapies—such as behavior management strategies and classroom-based interventions—have demonstrated some success in reducing inappropriate behaviors in school settings, but their efficacy in improving academic outcomes remains weak (Moore et al., 2018). While multimodal interventions (combining medication and behavioral therapy) have shown promising results in alleviating core ADHD symptoms, they fall short in producing substantial improvements in academic performance. A growing body of research suggests that these interventions primarily target symptom management rather than directly enhancing academic skills or achievements (Shen et al., 2021). Therefore, although existing interventions can improve classroom behavior and attention to a certain degree, their limitations in fostering long-term academic progress underscore the urgent need for more effective educational strategies for children with ADHD.
In recent years, gamified educational tools have emerged as a promising alternative for engaging children with ADHD. Given their short attention spans and susceptibility to distraction, children with ADHD may particularly benefit from game-based learning approaches that integrate educational content with engaging gameplay elements (Lee et al., 2025). Gamification has been shown to significantly enhance sustained attention in children with ADHD. For example, Supangan et al. developed an Android-based application tailored for children with ADHD that incorporates animations and interactive activities to teach math, language, and basic health knowledge, while also allowing parents and teachers to monitor learning progress in real time (Doulou et al., 2025). By leveraging multisensory stimuli such as visuals, sounds, and interactivity, gamified tools not only support improvements in attention but also enhance motivation through interactive engagement, instant feedback, and reward mechanisms (Lin & Chang, 2025; Benzing & Schmidt, 2019; Wang et al., 2025). Since academic performance in ADHD populations is closely linked to attentional capacity, well-designed interactive content may also lead to meaningful gains in learning outcomes.
A systematic review by Prasad et al. noted that while medication can improve classroom functioning, its effects on academic achievement are limited (Prasad et al., 2013). Thus, integrating behavioral interventions with gamified learning tools may represent a more effective strategy for supporting academic success. However, evidence regarding such non-pharmacological interventions remains mixed. For example, Donk et al. found that working memory training programs like Cogmed improved visuospatial working memory but did not significantly affect academic achievement, suggesting that interventions must be more closely aligned with specific academic goals (van der Donk et al., 2015). Langberg et al. further emphasized the importance of individualized interventions in improving classroom performance and homework management in children with ADHD (Langberg et al., 2011). Nevertheless, several gaps remain in current research: most studies focus on short-term outcomes and lack long-term follow-up; the design of gamified tools is often not sufficiently personalized to accommodate the diverse needs of children with ADHD (Zendarski et al., 2022); and the interaction between socioeconomic status (SES) and ADHD symptomatology in shaping academic outcomes remains underexplored (Espanol-Martin et al., 2023). Future studies should explore more personalized gamification designs and assess their efficacy across different cultural and educational contexts.
This study employed a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design to evaluate the effects of a computer-based gamified learning intervention on sustained attention, distractibility, and impulsivity in children with ADHD. Attention performance, impulse control, and behavioral changes were assessed using parent- and teacher-reported rating scales, while standardized academic assessments were used to measure performance in core subjects. By quantitatively analyzing changes in attention and academic performance between the experimental and control groups, this study aims to assess the educational effectiveness of gamified learning for children with ADHD. The findings will provide theoretical insights and practical guidance for improving learning experiences and academic outcomes, as well as inform the design of future educational tools tailored to the needs of this population.
Materials and methods
Study design and procedure
This study employed an 8-week randomized controlled trial (RCT) design with an additional follow-up assessment conducted 8 weeks after the intervention. The trial was carried out between March and December 2023. After participant screening and baseline assessments, eligible children were randomly assigned to either the experimental group (gamified training) or the control group (non-gamified training). Baseline (Week 0) assessments were followed by an 8-week intervention period, and post-intervention assessments were conducted at Week 8. A follow-up assessment was scheduled at Week 16 to examine the maintenance of training effects. The study was implemented in both home and school settings, with training completed individually on tablet devices. Figure 1 illustrates the overall study flow, including participant enrollment, randomization, intervention, and assessment time points.
Figure 1
 
Study flow diagram.
Participants
Participants were recruited through outpatient clinics specializing in ADHD and through advertisements distributed in local elementary schools in [City, Country]. Inclusion criteria were: (a) a clinical diagnosis of ADHD based on DSM-5 criteria confirmed by a child psychiatrist, (b) age between 6 and 12 years, (c) full-scale IQ between 95 and 105 as measured by the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV), and (d) ability to comply with the study protocol. Exclusion criteria included autism spectrum disorder, anxiety disorders, dyslexia, and dyscalculia. Children receiving pharmacological treatment were required to maintain a stable dose for at least 4 weeks prior to enrollment and throughout the study period.
A total of 80 participants met the eligibility criteria and were randomly assigned to either the experimental group (n = 40) or the control group (n = 40) using a computer-generated block randomization procedure (block size = 4, 1:1 allocation). Allocation concealment was ensured by sealed, opaque envelopes prepared by a researcher not involved in assessments. Outcome assessors were blinded to group assignments; however, participants and parents were not, due to the nature of the intervention (Figures 2–4).
Figure 2
 
Time effects showing changes in mean scores between pre-intervention and post-intervention Attention performance and academic performance at Pre-test, Post-test, and Follow-up.
Figure 3
 
Between-group effects showing post-intervention mean scores of the experimental and control groups.
Figure 4
 
Changes in group performance before and after the intervention.
The study adhered to the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Formal institutional review board approval was not required under local regulations for non-clinical educational research. Written informed consent was obtained from parents or legal guardians, and assent was obtained from all participating children.
Interventions and materials
Both groups participated in digital training sessions delivered through tablet devices. Training targeted three academic domains: basic calculation, text comprehension, and phonological awareness. Participants were instructed to complete training for 25–30 min per day, 5 days per week, over an 8-week period. Total training time and completion rates were automatically logged by the application.
The experimental group used a specifically designed gamified educational application that incorporated immediate feedback, point-based rewards, and level-based progression. Tasks dynamically adjusted in difficulty according to the child’s performance. The gamification design drew on cognitive training principles underlying the Continuous Performance Task (CPT) and established motivational frameworks. Parents were asked to supervise the daily training sessions at home to ensure adherence.
The control group received the same training content through a non-gamified digital platform, without feedback, rewards, or level progression. Tasks were presented in a linear format with a neutral interface. Table 1 summarizes the differences between the two training conditions.
Table 1
Feature	Experimental (Gamified)	Control (Non-Gamified)
Content	Calculation, text comprehension, phonology	Same
Feedback	Immediate, task-specific feedback	None
Rewards	Points and badges for correct responses	None
Progression	Level-based adaptive challenges	Linear presentation
Interface	Game-like, visually engaging	Standard digital learning interface
Parent role	Supervising daily training	Supervising daily training
Key differences between experimental and control conditions.
On average, children in both groups completed 36 training sessions (SD = 4.2), with no significant difference in total training time between groups.
The gamified application was developed in-house by the research team at the College of Statistics and Data Science, Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics.
Measures
Attention outcomes were assessed using three computerized tasks: the Visual Reaction Time Test, the Auditory Reaction Time Test, and the Continuous Performance Test (CPT). The CPT was used to measure sustained attention and response inhibition. Previous studies have demonstrated that increased reaction time variability is a robust and theoretically meaningful marker of attentional deficits in ADHD populations, supporting the default-mode interference hypothesis (Salum et al., 2019). The reliability and validity of the CPT have also been confirmed in Chinese children with ADHD, indicating its applicability in educational and clinical contexts (Shuai et al., 2011). The present study employed the standardized version of the Conners’ Continuous Performance Test, Third Edition (CPT-3) developed by Conners et al., which has been widely used in both educational and clinical assessments of attention (Keith Conners et al., 2018).
Academic outcomes were assessed using standardized reading, writing, and mathematics tests. Previous studies have validated literacy measures in Chinese primary school students, demonstrating good psychometric properties (Liu & McBride-Chang, 2010). These references provide theoretical and empirical support for the measurement tools used in the present study.
Statistical analysis
Data were analyzed using SPSS version 27.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY). For each outcome measure, Group (experimental vs. control) × Time (pre-test vs. post-test) mixed-model ANOVAs were performed to examine main effects and interactions. Effect sizes were calculated using Cohen’s d for within- and between-group differences, and partial η2 for interaction effects. Multiple comparisons were controlled using the Benjamini–Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR) procedure. Analyses followed the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle. Missing data were handled using linear mixed-effects models with maximum likelihood estimation, assuming data were missing at random. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05.
Results
Time effect for post-test (within-group changes)
Table 2 summarizes the descriptive statistics (means and standard deviations) for attention and academic outcomes at pre-test, post-test, and follow-up for both groups. Across all attention measures—visual, auditory, and sustained—significant reductions in reaction times were observed after the 8-week intervention in the experimental group. Specifically, visual reaction time decreased from 550 ms (SD = 45.6) at pre-test to 440 ms (SD = 38.4) at post-test, auditory reaction time decreased from 605 ms (SD = 50.2) to 505 ms (SD = 42.7), and sustained attention reaction time decreased from 715 ms (SD = 61.8) to 615 ms (SD = 54.3). These reductions were statistically significant (all p < 0.001), with large effect sizes (Cohen’s d = 0.92–1.05).
Table 2
Outcome	Group	Pre-test (M ± SD)	Post-test (M ± SD)	Follow-up (M ± SD)
Visual attention (ms)	Experimental	550 ± 45.6	440 ± 38.4	445 ± 40.1
	Control	550 ± 46.2	537 ± 47.2	540 ± 45.8
Auditory attention (ms)	Experimental	605 ± 50.2	505 ± 42.7	510 ± 44.5
	Control	606 ± 49.5	593 ± 48.0	595 ± 46.9
Sustained attention (ms)	Experimental	715 ± 61.8	615 ± 54.3	620 ± 56.1
	Control	713 ± 60.5	703 ± 59.4	705 ± 58.6
Reading score	Experimental	60.5 ± 9.2	80.4 ± 8.7	79.6 ± 8.9
	Control	60.6 ± 9.0	65.8 ± 8.5	66.1 ± 8.8
Writing score	Experimental	55.9 ± 8.5	76.2 ± 9.1	75.8 ± 9.2
	Control	56.2 ± 8.6	60.8 ± 8.4	61.0 ± 8.5
Mathematics score	Experimental	46.0 ± 7.4	71.2 ± 8.6	70.5 ± 8.8
	Control	46.2 ± 7.5	50.8 ± 7.9	51.1 ± 7.7
Descriptive statistics for attention and academic outcomes at pre-test, post-test, and follow-up in the experimental and control groups (n = 40 per group).
Reaction times are reported in milliseconds; academic outcomes are standardized test scores. M = mean, SD = standard deviation.
In the academic domain, the experimental group also exhibited marked improvements. Reading scores increased from 60.5 (SD = 9.2) to 80.4 (SD = 8.7), writing from 55.9 (SD = 8.5) to 76.2 (SD = 9.1), and mathematics from 46.0 (SD = 7.4) to 71.2 (SD = 8.6) between pre- and post-test. All differences were significant (p < 0.001, Cohen’s d = 1.1–1.3), indicating substantial academic gains following the intervention (Table 3).
Table 3
Variable	Experimental group (n = 40)	Control group (n = 40)	Total (n = 80)
Age (years)	8.31 ± 0.45	8.30 ± 0.47	8.30 ± 0.46
Gender
Male (n, %)	22 (55%)	21 (52.5%)	43 (53.75%)
Female (n, %)	18 (45%)	19 (47.5%)	37 (46.25%)
IQ (mean ± SD)	98.20 ± 5.10	97.85 ± 5.25	98.03 ± 5.18
SES	7.05 ± 0.65	7.10 ± 0.70	7.08 ± 0.68
ADHD Type
Inattentive (n, %)	20 (50%)	19 (47.5%)	39 (48.75%)
Hyperactive–Impulsive (n, %)	12 (30%)	14 (35%)	26 (32.5%)
Combined (n, %)	8 (20%)	7 (17.5%)	15 (18.75%)
Sample description.
In contrast, the control group—who received the same academic training content but without gamification elements—showed only small within-group improvements in attention (10–15 ms reductions) and modest gains in academic scores (4–6 point increases), none of which reached medium effect sizes (Cohen’s d = 0.15–0.30). This suggests that standard digital training alone led to limited progress over the intervention period.
Group effect for post-test (between-group differences)
At post-test, significant group differences were found across all attention and academic outcomes (Table 2). For visual attention, the experimental group achieved faster reaction times (M = 440 ms, SD = 38.4) than the control group (M = 537 ms, SD = 47.2), F(1,78) = 24.8, p < 0.001, partial η2 = 0.24. Similar patterns were observed for auditory attention (experimental: M = 505 ms vs. control: M = 593 ms, F(1,78) = 21.4, p < 0.001, partial η2 = 0.22) and sustained attention (experimental: M = 615 ms vs. control: M = 703 ms, F(1,78) = 19.6, p < 0.001, partial η2 = 0.20).
In academic outcomes, the experimental group also significantly outperformed the control group at post-test: reading (80.4 vs. 65.8), writing (76.2 vs. 60.8), and mathematics (71.2 vs. 50.8), all p < 0.001 with large between-group effect sizes (Cohen’s d = 0.98–1.25). These results indicate that the addition of gamification elements produced substantial improvements beyond those achieved by standard digital training alone.
Interaction effect (group × time for pre–post period)
A 2 (Group: experimental vs. control) × 2 (Time: pre vs. post) mixed ANOVA revealed significant Group × Time interaction effects across all measures. For example, visual attention showed F(1,78) = 25.3, p < 0.001, partial η2 = 0.25; auditory attention F(1,78) = 22.1, p < 0.001, partial η2 = 0.23; and sustained attention F(1,78) = 20.2, p < 0.001, partial η2 = 0.21. Similarly, significant interaction effects were observed for reading, writing, and mathematics scores (all p < 0.001, partial η2 = 0.24–0.29). These findings confirm that the experimental group exhibited significantly greater improvements from pre- to post-test compared to the control group.
Time effect for follow-up (post–follow changes)
At the 8-week follow-up (Week 16), the experimental group maintained most of the post-intervention gains. Reaction times and academic scores showed no significant decline compared to post-test (all p > 0.10), indicating stable effects over the follow-up period. For example, visual reaction time at follow-up was 445 ms (SD = 40.1), not significantly different from post-test, t(39) = 0.82, p = 0.42. Academic scores also remained stable (reading: 79.6; writing: 75.8; mathematics: 70.5).
Group effect for follow-up (between-group differences at follow-up)
In contrast, the control group exhibited minimal additional changes during follow-up, with reaction times and academic scores remaining close to post-test levels (all p > 0.10). No significant group × time interactions emerged during the post–follow-up period, suggesting that the primary benefits were achieved during the intervention phase and sustained thereafter in the experimental group.
To visually illustrate these findings, an additional figure (Figure 5) was added to compare post-test and follow-up outcomes across all measured domains. As shown in Figure 5, the experimental group maintained its improvements in both attention and academic performance, whereas the control group displayed minimal change. These results confirm that the beneficial effects of the gamified training were stable over the 8-week follow-up period.
Figure 5
 
Post-test and follow-up comparison between groups. Bars represent mean reading scores for the control and experimental groups at post-test and follow-up assessments. Each group includes two adjacent bars corresponding to post-test (dark) and follow-up (light). The experimental group maintained its post-intervention gains, while the control group showed minimal change.
Training adherence
On average, children in the experimental group completed 36.5 training sessions (SD = 4.2), corresponding to a total of approximately 1,220 min of training. The control group completed 35.8 sessions (SD = 4.0; 1,180 min). No significant between-group differences in training duration were observed, t(78) = 0.65, p = 0.52, indicating that improvements in the experimental group cannot be attributed to differences in training time.
Discussion
The results of this randomized controlled trial demonstrate that gamified learning tools can significantly improve both attention performance and academic achievement in children with ADHD. Compared to non-gamified digital training, gamified tools not only produced substantial short-term improvements after the 8-week intervention but also maintained most of these gains at the 8-week follow-up. These findings are consistent with the growing body of evidence supporting the use of video games and serious games for ADHD assessment and treatment, which highlights their potential for enhancing cognitive and academic outcomes through interactive and adaptive task structures (Penuelas-Calvo et al., 2022; Klingberg et al., 2005; Boot et al., 2008).
Gamified learning tools demonstrated a clear impact on enhancing attention performance in children with ADHD. Children who received gamified training showed significant reductions in reaction times across visual, auditory, and sustained attention tasks, indicating improved attentional efficiency and sustained focus. This finding aligns with previous research on multisensory stimulation, which has shown that integrating visual, auditory, and interactive elements enhances cognitive control over attention in children with ADHD (Cai et al., 2022). Furthermore, these findings are consistent with behavioral intervention studies demonstrating that structured attention-focused programs can increase attention duration in real-world contexts (Pfiffner et al., 2013). Importantly, the improvements observed in this study were maintained at follow-up, suggesting that the effects of gamified interventions on attentional performance may extend beyond the immediate training period.
Gamified learning tools also significantly improved academic performance in reading, writing, and mathematics. This is particularly relevant given the well-documented academic challenges faced by children with ADHD, including lower achievement trajectories compared to their peers (Loe & Feldman, 2007; Kollins et al., 2020). Prior studies have demonstrated that serious games can enhance academic engagement and outcomes through structured feedback and motivational design (Klingberg et al., 2005; De Luca et al., 2025). By embedding core academic content—such as calculation, reading comprehension, and phonological awareness—into the gamified environment, the present study extends existing work by demonstrating direct improvements in academic learning, rather than cognitive functions alone.
Despite these encouraging findings, several limitations should be acknowledged. First, although the intervention effects were largely maintained at the 8-week follow-up, the follow-up period was relatively short. Longer-term longitudinal studies are needed to determine whether these improvements persist over months or academic years (Lawrence et al., 2021). Second, the sample was drawn from a single cultural and educational context, which may limit the generalizability of the results. Future research should examine the applicability of gamified interventions across different cultural and educational settings. Third, ADHD is a heterogeneous disorder with multiple subtypes (inattentive, hyperactive–impulsive, combined), which may respond differently to gamified interventions. Stratifying participants by ADHD subtype could help clarify whether certain groups benefit more than others. Finally, while this study focused on a specific gamified tool developed for the research, future research could explore other personalized game-based approaches. Recent studies have shown the potential of serious games designed for specific cognitive profiles (25, 26) (Ruiz-Robledillo et al., 2025), highlighting the need for tailored interventions that adapt to individual characteristics.
In conclusion, this study provides evidence that gamified learning tools can significantly improve attention and academic outcomes in children with ADHD, with effects sustained for at least 8 weeks after the intervention. These results situate the present study within the emerging international literature on serious games for ADHD and underscore the potential of gamified learning to complement traditional educational approaches. Future research should focus on developing more personalized, scalable, and culturally adaptable gamified interventions and on evaluating their long-term effectiveness across diverse populations.
Conclusion
This randomized controlled trial provides empirical evidence that gamified learning tools can significantly enhance both attention performance and academic achievement in children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Compared to non-gamified digital training, the gamified intervention led to greater reductions in reaction times across visual, auditory, and sustained attention tasks, as well as notable improvements in reading, writing, and mathematics performance. Importantly, these effects were largely maintained at the 8-week follow-up, suggesting that gamified interventions can produce meaningful short- to medium-term benefits for children with ADHD in both attentional and academic domains.
By integrating multisensory stimulation, real-time feedback, and interactive reward mechanisms, gamified tools create engaging and adaptive learning environments that can effectively sustain attention and increase learning motivation. These findings contribute to the growing international literature on serious games and digital therapeutics for ADHD, demonstrating their potential as complementary strategies to traditional educational approaches.
Future research should extend these findings by examining the long-term sustainability of intervention effects through extended follow-up periods and by evaluating the applicability of gamified tools across diverse cultural and educational settings. Additionally, greater attention should be given to personalized intervention design. Developing gamified tools tailored to different ADHD subtypes and individual cognitive profiles may further optimize their effectiveness and scalability. Such efforts will be essential for translating gamified learning interventions into sustainable, evidence-based educational practices.
Statements
Data availability statement
The raw data supporting the conclusions of this article will be made available by the authors, without undue reservation.
Author contributions
JD: Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing. AW: Supervision, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing. HZ: Project administration, Supervision, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing.
Funding
The author(s) declared that financial support was not received for this work and/or its publication.
Conflict of interest
The author(s) declared that this work was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
Generative AI statement
The author(s) declared that Generative AI was not used in the creation of this manuscript.
Any alternative text (alt text) provided alongside figures in this article has been generated by Frontiers with the support of artificial intelligence and reasonable efforts have been made to ensure accuracy, including review by the authors wherever possible. If you identify any issues, please contact us.

Homeschooling with ADHD and video games can be a powerful combination to increase executive functioning skills, improve attention and memory, and keep your child’s interest in learning!
This page may contain affiliate links from which we may earn a commission, at no additional cost to you, when you click and/or make a purchase from our partners. Sometimes, we also include links to external sites, from which we do not earn a commission. We have simply provided these links as a convenience to our readers. We make no claims and hold no responsibility for the content of the linked sites. See our Disclosure Policy for more information.
Did you know that there is a good bit of research that supports the idea that kids with ADHD (attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder) often learn better and retain more information when they learn through video game play? It’s true! (Blumberg et al., 2019; Rivero et al., 2015)
Pin for later…
 
	Save
Let’s talk about ADHD and video games
Video games often get a bad rap for being a seemingly mindless time thief that produces generations of zombie kids. While there are plenty of potentially negative effects from unlimited screen time and violent video games, allowing your child with ADHD some time to play quality video games can actually benefit them greatly!
There’s even a new ADHD treatment called EndeavorRx that is actually a video game that has been approved by the FDA to be used as a part of an ADHD therapy plan. It has to be prescribed by a doctor, filled through a pharmacy, and can be billed to your insurance company! It sounds crazy, but that’s how much research has gone into ADHD and video games!

 
	
Save

Executive Functioning Skills
If you have a child with ADHD (or you have it yourself), you probably know that executive functioning skills need to be improved. Everyone who has ADHD struggles with executive functioning on some level.
What are executive functioning skills? They are the processes of the brain that control things like:
	Working memory
	Self-regulation
	Organization and planning
	Transitioning from one task to another
	Initiating and completing tasks
	Impulse control
	Prioritizing tasks
	Flexible thinking (understanding different strategies or viewpoints)
Although more research over time will show more definitively whether certain types of video games can improve executive functioning skills, there are many studies that have been completed over the past decade or so that have shown an increase in executive functioning skills through the use of video game play.
Many video games require players to focus on one item or task with other distractions constantly coming at them. Players must determine the best course of strategic action and prioritize tasks in order to complete a mission. Working memory is constantly in play as they must remember what tools they have to use, where to go for certain things, and what keystrokes/controls they must engage to perform certain actions. (I’m sure you can tell I’m not a gamer with my lack of gaming terminology, and you can bet my kids will correct me if they read this!)
 
	Save
Attentional Motivation
The consistent and constant feedback from video games provides motivation and keeps players in a high state of arousal.
Boredom is the kryptonite of the ADHD brain. People with ADHD have to have something stimulating to do or to think about. ALL. THE. TIME. If they don’t, their mind will wander on to something that does stimulate them.
The constant action, reaching higher levels, earning rewards…all of these things that video games offer keep the mind engaged and motivate players to complete tasks.
The current research has shown improvement in several different kinds of attention skills through video game play (Rivero et al., 2015):
	Selective
	Sustained
	Divided
	Vigilance
	Set-Shifting
	Response Speed
As parents of kids with ADHD (especially if we’re homeschooling), we are always trying to figure out how to increase attention span. With these kinds of possible outcomes, it seems worth it to me to let video games have some place in our kids’ routines.
Join our ADHD Homeschooling Support Group on Facebook
Academic Gains
It’s hard to re-train ourselves sometimes when we think that something has to be done a certain way. With education, for example, most of us went to a traditional school and heard a lot of lectures, read a lot of textbooks, completed a lot of worksheets, answered a lot of questions, and wrote a lot of papers.
That type of learning was ingrained in us, so that’s how we think it has to be done. But, it’s not.
Sure, there is a place for some of that. And, yes, some people learn best that way. But, it’s not the only way to learn. And for our kids with ADHD, it’s probably not the best way to learn.
Presenting academic content in a video game format can help kids with ADHD develop knowledge and skills that would be very difficult for them to master by traditional methods. Even skills like reading comprehension and passage copying have been found to be improved through computerized attentional training, even though those skills were not explicitly taught in the training (Shalev et al., 2007).
Now, there is definitely progress to be made in terms of which video games will actually provide academic gains. There is no widespread regulation as to what video games or apps can be labeled as educational, so there will definitely be some trial and error in choosing the games that produce the best academic outcomes for our kids with ADHD (Blumberg et al., 2019).

 
	
Save

Individualized Outcomes
As with everything else pertaining to kids with ADHD, the effects of video game play will vary with each individual. ADHD is a spectrum disorder. Symptoms vary widely on that spectrum. Medication treatment choices, environmental differences, and comorbidities (other disorders that are also present, such as learning differences or anxiety) add additional layers of symptom diversity.
Some researchers in the field of video game therapy for kids with ADHD are pushing for more individualized baseline measures so that they can better predict whether this type of therapy will be beneficial for each specific individual (Bisoglio et al., 2014).
Of course, we can’t all be participants in a research study. One of the limitations of the research on video game therapy for kids with ADHD is how to measure whether the gains in executive functioning skills carry over into real-life experiences, anyway (Rivero et al., 2015).
So, like most other things, parents of kids with ADHD will have to pay attention to see how video game play affects their child and use it in the way that best fits their needs.
Let’s talk about homeschooling with ADHD and video games
So, what if you’re homeschooling a child with ADHD? How can you incorporate video games into your child’s routine in a positive way that will add to their academic experience?
Choosing Video Games
As I mentioned earlier, there are currently no regulations that monitor what games and apps can be labeled as educational. Homeschooling parents do a lot of research already to find the educational tools that best fit the needs of their children, and it’s the same process for choosing video games for learning.
Join our ADHD Homeschooling Support Group on Facebook
Asking other parents in Facebook groups is a great place to start! The parents in my ADHD Homeschooling Support Group love to share about the tools and strategies they’ve found that help their own kids!
Look for games that are age-appropriate and target the skills your child needs to learn. Math and reading skills are popular categories for educational games, and probably make up the greatest majority of the games available. However, you can also find video games and apps that teach science, history, geography, personal finance, critical thinking skills, foreign language, art, coding, social skills, emotional regulation, and more!

 
Get 25% off an annual subscription to MoneyTime!
Once you’ve narrowed down your options into games that you feel comfortable with, let your child look at it with you and help you make the final decisions. When they have a hand in choosing, they are much more likely to want to use it long-term.
Many games allow kids to create their own avatar to look similar to themselves and earn points or some other currency to purchase new accessories. This type of personalization gives kids a greater sense of ownership in the game. They want to see their avatar be successful!
If you’re a homeschooling family with more than one child, sometimes you can find subscriptions to educational video games that allow each of your children to have their own login. This is such a great benefit! Each kid can create their own avatar and play at the level that is appropriate for their needs. Most of these types of programs will even give the parent progress reports for each child!
Video Games & Your Homeschool Day
You might be wondering how you can manage video games in your homeschool day without it becoming a struggle to get your kids to do anything else. We all know that video games can be addictive. Kids with ADHD also hyperfocus on the things that are most interesting to them. So, how do we create balance?

 
	
Save

The ultimate answer is that all kids and families are different, so you’ll have to try some different things until you figure out what works for your situation. However, there are some general tips that you might find to be helpful in creating a successful routine.
If you’re using an educational video game to help your child learn, don’t use it as a reward or punishment. Leave that for the non-academic video game time. Rather, make the learning games a regular part of your day that happens for a pre-determined amount of time. You don’t want your child to miss out on valuable math practice just because they didn’t pick up their toys, right? So, even if it’s something they love and you think it would be a great motivational tool, resist the urge to use it that way!
Schedule video game play right before breaks in your day or other things that your child looks forward to. It will be easier to help them transition away from the games to other tasks if they get to move right into something else they really enjoy. For example, let them have 30 minutes of game time before lunch each day. That way, when lunch is ready, they know it’s time to stop and eat. You won’t have to try to drag them away from the game to go write a paragraph because you’ve already built the transitions into your day with breaks.
Use an app like Freedom to monitor game time. Freedom allows you to block everything on your device except what you want to work on for any length of time that you set (great for those of us who need help focusing on one task without distractions)! It can show a countdown timer, too, so your child can see how much time they have left. It works across all of your devices. So, essentially, you could allow only the game you want your child to play for 30 minutes (or whatever time you set) and then block it. Freedom is a great tool for people with ADHD to use to help them be more productive with tasks that need to be done on a computer or device!

 
	
Save

Video games are worth a try for your homeschool kids with ADHD
Bottom Line: There is enough research to suggest that video game play can benefit kids with ADHD in numerous ways. Can there be drawbacks? Absolutely. But with proper monitoring, video games have the potential to help your kids with ADHD improve executive functioning skills, increase attention spans, and make academic gains.
I encourage you to give it a try with video games that are appropriate for your kids and family-both for fun and educational purposes!

Efficacy of Gamified Digital Mental Health Interventions for Pediatric Mental Health ConditionsA Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis
Barry R. Bryant, MD1; Morgan R. Sisk, BS2; Joseph F. McGuire, PhD1
	Author Affiliations 
	Article Information
	Cite
	Permissions
	 Metrics
	Comments
JAMA Pediatr
Published Online: September 23, 2024
2024;178;(11):1136-1146. doi:10.1001/jamapediatrics.2024.3139
related icon Related Articlesfigure icon Figuresattach icon Supplemental Content
Key Points
Question  Given the challenges confronting the accessibility of pediatric mental health care, are gamified digital mental health interventions (DMHIs) effective for treating pediatric anxiety, depression, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)?
Findings  This systematic review and meta-analysis found that gamified DMHIs were effective in improving the severity of ADHD and depressive symptoms in randomized clinical trials (RCTs) but not for reducing the severity anxiety symptoms. Moderator analyses revealed that intervention delivery modality and sex differences influenced treatment effects of DMHIs for ADHD, whereas preset time limits improved treatment effects of DMHIs for depressive disorders.
Meaning  The findings suggest that gamified DMHIs may constitute a key piece of a comprehensive pediatric mental health treatment plan for youth with ADHD or depression, and future research should consider identified moderators to optimize treatment outcomes.
Abstract
Importance  Anxiety, depression, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) affect up to 20% of children and adolescents. Despite demonstrated efficacy, evidence-based treatments for these conditions are often inaccessible; innovative solutions are essential to meet the demand for pediatric mental health care.
Objective  To examine the efficacy and moderators of gamified DMHIs for anxiety, depression, and ADHD in randomized clinical trials (RCTs) for children and adolescents.
Data Sources  A systematic search of PubMed, PsycInfo, and Web of Science was conducted for RCTs published before March 20, 2024.
Study Selection  RCTs that evaluated the efficacy of gamified DMHIs for treating pediatric ADHD, depression, or anxiety were included. Studies were excluded if they did not use a gamified DMHI, provide sufficient data for effect sizes, or were unavailable in English.
Data Extraction and Synthesis  Efficacy data were extracted from rating scales for ADHD, depression, and anxiety. Extracted moderator variables included participant characteristics (eg, age and sex), intervention characteristics (eg, delivery modality and time limit), and trial design characteristics (eg, outcome measure and risk of bias).
Main Outcomes and Measures  The primary outcome was change in ADHD, depression, or anxiety severity in the treatment group compared to the control group. Hedges g quantified treatment effects.
Results  The search strategy identified 27 RCTs that included 2911 participants across ADHD, depression, and anxiety disorders. There were modest significant effects of gamified DMHIs on ADHD (g, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.09 to 0.48) and depression (g, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.08 to 0.47) but small, nonsignificant effects for anxiety disorders (g, 0.07; 95% CI, −0.02 to 0.17). Moderator analyses revealed that DMHIs for ADHD delivered on a computer and those RCTs that had a greater preponderance of male participants produced larger treatment effects. DMHIs for depressive disorders that used preset time limits for gamified DMHIs also exhibited larger treatment effects.
Conclusions and Relevance  The findings suggest a benefit of gamified DMHIs for youth with ADHD or depressive disorder. Pediatricians and other health care professionals have new information about novel, accessible, and efficacious options for pediatric mental health care.
Introduction
Anxiety, depression, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are common mental health conditions that affect up to 20% of children and adolescents.1 These conditions often co-occur2 and are characterized by symptoms, including low mood, excessive worry, trouble with attention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity—which can cause severe impairment across life domains.3 Left untreated, these conditions place youth at risk of the development of severe psychopathology and health-related sequalae in adulthood.4 Consequently, the effective treatment of anxiety, depression, and ADHD is a pressing public health concern that has implications across the life span.5
Fortunately, evidence-based treatments exist. While behavioral therapies such as parent training are efficacious for the management of ADHD, cognitive behavioral therapy has shown efficacy for treating anxiety and depression in youth.6-8 Stimulant and nonstimulant medications have shown therapeutic benefit for ADHD,7,9 and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have demonstrated efficacy for anxiety and depression.6,8 However, evidence-based psychotherapies are often limited to specialty clinics and restricted by the number of trained health care professionals, which results in long wait times to access care.10-12 Similarly for pharmacotherapy, there is limited accessibility to trained child and adolescent psychiatrists. Moreover, some evidence-based pharmacotherapies are controlled substances (eg, stimulant medications) that require regular in-person visits that may not be feasible for patients and families (although this requirement has been suspended through December 31, 2024, due to the COVID-19 pandemic13). Indeed, experts suggest that doubling the mental health care workforce would yield only a minor public health impact.14 While pediatric primary care settings have served as intermediaries to provide mental health care services,15,16 innovative solutions are needed to address the increasing demand.
Digital mental health interventions (DMHIs) comprise activities accessed via technology platforms—computers, tablets, video game consoles, and smartphones—that aim to improve the user’s mental health.17 DMHIs have demonstrated some efficacy for treating mental health conditions.18,19 However, engagement with therapeutic content is a well-known challenge for DMHIs.20 For example, a teenager may download an efficacious DMHI for anxiety or depression, but the patient still needs to open the app, engage with therapeutic content, and implement therapeutic skills—all of which can prove challenging for youth who have low motivation or struggle with inattention. One approach to improve engagement is gamification, which refers to “the process of adding games or gamelike elements to something (such as a task) so as to encourage participation.”21 Initial evidence suggests that gamified DMHIs can increase engagement among young people relative to traditional therapies.22 Thus, gamified DMHIs represent a novel way to deliver evidence-based mental health care in an accessible, scalable, and engaging manner.
In response, we conducted a meta-analysis to examine the therapeutic effects of gamified DMHIs for anxiety, depression, and ADHD. Furthermore, we evaluated moderators of treatment effects from DMHIs investigating participant-level characteristics, intervention-level characteristics, and trial-design characteristics. Findings can help frontline clinicians (eg, primary health care professionals) make informed recommendations about using gamified DMHIs as part of a comprehensive mental health treatment plan.
Methods
Design, Search Strategy, and Eligibility Criteria
Following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines, PubMed, Web of Science, and PsycInfo were searched using the following key terms: “ADHD” or “depression” or “anxiety” and “youth” or “children” or “adolescents” focusing on a “videogame” or “computer game” or “game-based” intervention (see the eMethods in Supplement 1 for exact search terms). The initial search was conducted in April 2023 and updated to incorporate any recent published reports through March 20, 2024 (Figure 123). Identified titles and abstracts were reviewed for appropriateness independently by 2 raters. The references of pertinent trials and review articles were also searched. Identified abstracts and citations were evaluated for the following inclusion criteria: (1) a randomized clinical trial (RCT) that used a gamified DMHI to reduce anxiety, depression, or ADHD severity; (2) evaluated the efficacy of the gamified DMHI relative to a control condition; (3) included only participants younger than 18 years; (4) available in English; and (5) provided sufficient data to allow for treatment effect size calculation. When insufficient data were available, attempts were made to contact study authors to obtain data.
Figure 1.  PRISMA Flow Diagram of Selection of Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs)
View LargeDownload
 (opens in new tab)
ADHD indicates attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
aOne article23 included 2 gamified digital mental health intervention (DMHI) conditions, yielding an analysis of 27 RCTs in total.
Data Extraction
Data extraction was completed independently by 2 raters (B.R.B. and M.R.S.). When raters disagreed, consensus was achieved through consultation with the senior investigator (J.F.M.). Efficacy data were extracted from severity rating scales for ADHD, depression, and anxiety. A hierarchy of preferred outcomes was established a priori to limit possible reporting bias. If multiple outcome measures were present (eg, 2 anxiety rating scales), priority was given to parent, clinician, and then child-reported rating scales. Extracted moderators included participant characteristics (age, sex, and sample type [clinically significant vs community recruited]), intervention characteristics (specific DMHIs, treatment duration, time limit, aesthetic sophistication, public accessibility, and delivery modality), and trial design characteristics (sample size, attrition, publication year, control condition, outcome measure, and risk of bias). Sample type was categorized as either clinically significant or community recruited. If participants had to meet symptomatic requirements for enrollment (eg, clinician-diagnosed), the sample was classified as clinically significant. Meanwhile, if a study recruited participants without requiring a diagnosis but participants experienced some symptoms or were at risk of developing a disorder (eg, recruitment of youth with elevated anxiety levels from a school), this was classified as community recruited. Treatment duration referred to the number of weeks over which participants used the DMHI to allow for comparability across studies. Time limits were coded in a binary manner based on whether the RCT imposed an upper time limit for DMHI use by restricting access to the DMHI. Aesthetic sophistication was coded in a binary manner based on 3 DMHI characteristics: graphic complexity, concordance with game theme, and consistency across game elements. Public accessibility was determined based on whether the raters could access the DMHI. Risk of bias was calculated for each study using the Cochrane Risk Bias Calculator version 2.24
Effect Size Calculation and Statistical Analyses
Hedges g was selected to quantify treatment effects and was calculated in Comprehensive Meta-Analysis version 3 (Biostat).25 Effect sizes were calculated using change scores to increase the precision of effect size estimators by controlling for pretreatment group differences in symptom severity. Preatment and posttreatment means and standard deviations were entered into Comprehensive Meta-Analysis, and were divided by the pooled posttreatment standard deviation. Effect sizes were standardized so that a positive result indicated that gamified DMHIs performed better than control conditions. Separate random-effects models using inverse variance weights examined the effect sizes of gamified DMHIs for anxiety, depression, and ADHD severity. A random-effects model was selected because the true effect size was expected to vary across RCTs due to different study characteristics.26 Heterogeneity of effect size was assessed using forest plots, the Q statistic, and the I2 statistic. Publication bias was assessed by visual inspection of the funnel plot and the Egger test for bias. Moderators were analyzed using either method-of-moments meta-regression using inverse variance weights, or an analog to the analysis of variance. For studies with multiple active intervention arms, the same control condition was used as the comparator to calculate effect size and affected only 1 RCT for ADHD.23
Results
Search Results and Included RCTs
Figure 1 details the literature search that produced 27 RCTs23 ,27-51 that met all inclusion criteria. One included ADHD trial had 2 gamified DMHI conditions23 and 5 included RCTs provided both depression and anxiety outcomes.38 -42 This provided 32 treatment comparisons for inclusion in this meta-analysis (ADHD: 11 RCTs; depression: 9 RCTs; anxiety: 12 RCTs) with 2911 unique participants (ADHD: 771 participants; depression: 1332 participants; anxiety: 1719 participants). Table 1 displays participant characteristics for the RCTs. Table 2 presents the intervention and trial design characteristics. Table 3 shows the moderator analyses of treatment effects for each condition.
Table 1.  Participant Characteristics
View LargeDownload
 (opens in new tab)
Trial type	Participant characteristics
	Source	Mean age, y	% Female	Sample type
ADHD	Bikic et al, 2018	9.96	16	Clinically significant
	Dovis et al, 2015, intervention arm 1	10.55	20	Clinically significant
	Dovis et al, 2015, intervention arm 2	10.4	21	Clinically significant
	García-Redondo et al, 2019	11.56	39	Clinically significant
	Kim et al, 2022	9.1	23	Clinically significant
	Kollins et al, 2020	9.65	29	Clinically significant
	McDermott et al, 2020	9.57	30	Clinically significant
	Rajabi et al, 2020	10.13	0	Clinically significant
	van der Oord et al, 2014	9.75	18	Clinically significant
	Wang et al, 2023	8.15	25	Clinically significant
	Yerys et al, 2019	11.25	11	Clinically significant
Depression	Bohr et al, 2023	NR	NR	Clinically significant
	David et al, 2019	12.89	64	Clinically significant
	Fleming et al, 2012	14.9	44	Community recruited
	Knox et al, 2011	12.88	0.38	Clinically significant
	McCashin et al, 2021	9.94	42	Clinically significant
	Merry et al, 2012	15.56	66	Clinically significant
	Perry et al, 2017	16.76	63	Community recruited
	Poppelaars et al, 2016	13.24	100	Clinically significant
	Poppelaars et al, 2021	17.11	66	Clinically significant
Anxiety	Fleming et al, 2012a	14.9	44	Community recruited
	Knox et al, 2011a	12.88	38	Clinically significant
	McCashin et al, 2021a	9.94	42	Clinically significant
	Merry et al, 2012a	15.56	66	Clinically significant
	Perry et al, 2017a	16.76	63	Community recruited
	Sanchez et al, 2017	8.9	40	Community recruited
	Scholten et al, 2016	13.27	65	Clinically significant
	Schoneveld et al, 2016	9.95	58	Clinically significant
	Schoneveld et al, 2018	9.97	59	Clinically significant
	Schuurmans et al, 2018	13.97	16	Clinically significant
	Tsui et al, 2021	13.5	63.80	Clinically significant
	Wijnhoven et al, 2020	11.1	23	Clinically significant
Table 2.  Trial Design and Intervention Characteristics
View LargeDownload
 (opens in new tab)
Trial design and intervention characteristics
Source	Sample size	Attrition, %	Comparison condition	Outcome measure	Risk of bias	Specific DHMI intervention	Intervention duration, wk	Time limit (Y/N)	Aesthetically sophisticated (Y/N)	Delivery modality
ADHD trials										
Bikic et al, 2018	70	7	TAU /waitlist	ADHD-RS	Low	ACTIVATE	8	N	N	Computer
Dovis et al, 2015, intervention arm 1	61	10	Placebo digital intervention	DBRS	Low	Braingame Brian	5	N	N	Computer
Dovis et al, 2015, intervention arm 2	58	7	Placebo digital intervention	DBRS	Low	Braingame Brian	5	N	N	Computer
García-Redondo et al, 2019	44	NR	TAU/waitlist	EDAH-ADHD	Low	Boogies Academy and Cuibrain	14	Y	N	Tablet
Kim et al, 2022	30	0	TAU/waitlist	K-ARS	Low	NeuroWorld DTx	4	Y	Y	Tablet
Kollins et al, 2020	348	5	Placebo digital intervention	ADHD-RS	Low	AKL-T01/Project EVO	4	N	Y	Tablet
McDermott et al, 2020	46	13	TAU/waitlist	ADHD-RS	Some concerns	CogoLand	8	Y	N	Computer
Rajabi et al, 2020	32	NR	TAU/Waitlist	CPRS-R	Some concerns	SmartMind	10	Y	N	Computer
van der Oord et al, 2014	43	7	TAU/waitlist	DBRS	Some concerns	Braingame Brian	5	Y	N	Computer
Wang et al, 2023	20	0	Placebo digital intervention	ADHD-RS	Low	DTFAD001	4	N	Y	Tablet
Yerys et al, 2019	19	5	Educational intervention	ADHD-RS	Low	AKL-T01/Project EVO	4	Y	Y	Tablet
Depression trials										
Bohr et al, 2023	48	33	TAU/waitlist	CESD-R	Some concerns	SPARX	7	N	Y	Computer
David et al, 2019	109	12	Rational emotive behavior education	EATQ-R depressive mood	Some concerns	REThink	4	Y	N	Computer
Fleming et al, 2012	32	6	TAU/waitlist	CDRS-R	Low	SPARX	5	Y	Y	Computer
Knox et al, 2011	30	20	TAU/waitlist	CDI	High	Freeze-Framer 2.0 and Journey to the Wild Divine: The Passage	8	Y	Y	Computer
McCashin et al, 2021	122	34	TAU/waitlist	DSM-problem subscales: depressive	Low	Pesky gNATs	7	N	N	Computer
Merry et al, 2012	187	9	TAU/waitlist	CDRS-R	Low	SPARX	7	N	Y	Computer
Perry et al, 2017	540	75	Placebo digital intervention	MDI	High	SPARX-R	7	Y	Y	Computer
Poppelaars et al, 2016	102	5	Active monitoring of depressive symptoms	RADS-2	Low	Journey	7	N	Y	Videogame console
Poppelaars et al, 2021	162	4	Placebo digital intervention	CDI	Low	Journey	4	N	Y	Videogame console
Anxiety trials										
Fleming et al, 2012	32	6	Waitlist/TAU	SCAS	Low	SPARX	5	Y	Y	Computer
Knox et al, 2011	30	20	Waitlist/TAU	MASC	High	Freeze-Framer 2.0 and Journey to the Wild Divine: The Passage	8	Y	Y	Computer
McCashin et al, 2021	122	34	Waitlist/TAU	CBCL DSM-problem subscales: anxiety	Low	Pesky gNATs	7	N	N	Computer
Merry et al, 2012	187	9	Waitlist/TAU	SCAS	Low	SPARX	7	N	Y	Computer
Perry et al, 2017	540	75	Digital placebo	SCAS GAD and SOC	High	SPARX-R	7	Y	Y	Computer
Sanchez et al, 2017	93	26	Waitlist/TAU	Social Anxiety Scale for Children Revised	Some concerns	Adventures aboard the S.S. GRIN	9	N	Y	Computer
Scholten et al, 2016	138	7	Digital placebo	SCAS	Low	Dojo	3	Y	Y	Computer
Schoneveld et al, 2016	136	9	Digital placebo	SCAS	Low	Mindlight	2.5	Y	N	Computer
Schoneveld et al, 2018	174	17	CBT	SCAS	Low	Mindlight	6	Y	N	Computer
Schuurmans et al, 2018	41	10	Waitlist/TAU	SCAS	Low	Dojo	4	Y	Y	Computer
Tsui et al, 2021	117	11	CBT	SCAS	Some concerns	Mindlight	3	Y	N	Computer
Wijnhoven et al, 2020	109	37	Digital placebo	SCAS	Some concerns	Mindlight	6	Y	N	Computer
Table 3.  Regression Analyses and Analog to Analysis of Variance Examining Moderators of Gamified Digital Interventions Treatment Effects
View LargeDownload
 (opens in new tab)
Characteristic	β (95% CI)	No.	Q	df	P value	No.
ADHD
Mean participant age	−0.13 (−0.39 to 0.14)	11	NA	NA	NA	NA
Sex (% female)	−2.11 (−3.88 to −0.34)	11	NA	NA	NA	NA
Clinically significant/community recruited	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA
Intervention characteristics						
Treatment duration, wk	−0.02 (−0.09 to 0.05)	11	NA	NA	NA	NA
App name	NA	NA	7.35	7	.39	11
Time limit	NA	NA	3.24	1	.07	11
Aesthetically sophisticated	NA	NA	1.53	1	.22	11
Accessible to public	NA	NA	0.01	1	.99	11
Intervention delivery modality	NA	NA	4.45	1	.04	11
Trial design characteristics						
Sample size	<−0.01 (<−0.01 to <0.01)	11	NA	NA	NA	NA
Participant attrition	2.43 (−3.65 to 8.81)	9	NA	NA	NA	NA
Publication year	−0.01 (−0.01 to 0.07)	11	NA	NA	NA	NA
Control condition	NA	NA	4.61	2	.10	11
Outcome measure	NA	NA	4.41	4	.35	11
Risk of bias	NA	NA	8.61	1	.003	11
Depression
Mean participant age	−0.03 (−0.12 to 0.06)	8	NA	NA	NA	NA
Sex (% female)	−0.01 (−0.02 to 0.01)	8	NA	NA	NA	NA
Clinically significant/community recruited	NA	9	0.72	1	.40	9
Intervention characteristics						
Treatment duration, wk	−0.06 (−0.21 to 0.09)	9				
App name	NA	NA	7.07	5	.22	9
Time limit	NA	NA	4.43	1	.04	9
Aesthetically sophisticated	NA	NA	1.49	1	.22	9
Accessible to public	NA	NA	<0.01	1	.96	9
Intervention delivery modality	NA	NA	3.28	1	.07	9
Trial design characteristics						
Sample size	<−0.01 (−0.01 to 0.01)	9	NA	NA	NA	NA
Participant attrition	<−0.01 (−0.01 to 0.01)	9	NA	NA	NA	NA
Publication year	−0.04 (−0.09 to 0.02)	9	NA	NA	NA	NA
Control condition	NA	NA	5.42	3	.14	9
Outcome measure	NA	NA	7.08	6	.31	9
Risk of bias	NA	NA	0.00	2	.99	9
Anxiety
Mean participant age	<0.01 (−0.03 to 0.04)	12	NA	NA	NA	NA
Sex (% female)	<0.01 (−0.01 to 0.01)	12	NA	NA	NA	NA
Clinically significant/community recruited	NA	NA	0.50	1	.48	12
Intervention characteristics						
Treatment duration, wk	<−0.01 (−0.06 to 0.05)	12	NA	NA	NA	NA
App name	NA	NA	0.81	6	.99	12
Time limit	NA	NA	1.37	1	.24	12
Aesthetically sophisticated	NA	NA	0.12	1	.73	12
Accessible to public	NA	NA	0.04	1	.84	12
Intervention delivery modality	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA
Trial design characteristics						
Sample size	<0.01 (<−0.01 to <0.01)	12	NA	NA	NA	NA
Participant attrition	<0.01 (<−0.01 to <0.01)	12	NA	NA	NA	NA
Publication year	−0.02 (−0.05 to 0.02)	12	NA	NA	NA	NA
Control condition	NA	NA	1.58	2	.45	12
Outcome measure	NA	NA	0.59	4	.97	12
Risk of bias	NA	NA	0.81	2	.67	12
ADHD Efficacy Outcomes
The random-effects meta-analysis found a modest therapeutic effect of identified gamified DMHIs on ADHD outcomes compared to control conditions (g, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.09 to 0.48; z, 2.83; P < .001) (Figure 2A). Visual inspection of the forest plot, Q statistic, and I2 statistic identified the presence of some heterogeneity (Q10 = 14.28; P = .16; I2, 29.95%). Visual inspection of the funnel plot and Egger test for bias (t9 = 2.06, P = .07) did not suggest publication bias to be significant. As a precautionary step, the Duval and Tweedie trim-and-fill method was applied and filled 3 trials to the left of the mean. This produced a smaller adjusted effect size (g, 0.17).
Figure 2.  Overall Summary Effects and by Condition
View LargeDownload
 (opens in new tab)
ADHD indicates attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
ADHD Moderator Outcomes
Participant Characteristics
There was a significant association between biological sex and treatment effects, such that RCTs that had a greater percentage of boys exhibited larger effects. However, no significant associations between average participant age and treatment effects were found (Table 3).
Intervention Characteristics
DMHIs delivered on a computer (k, 6; g, 0.41) produced larger effects compared tablet-delivered DMHIs (k, 5; g, 0.09). Additionally, DMHIs delivered with imposed time limits (k, 6; g, 0.49) tended to exhibit greater effects compared to those without time limits (k, 5; g, 0.12, P = .07) (Table 3). However, no significant association was found between treatment duration and therapeutic effects (Table 3). Additionally, there was no significant difference in treatment effects across gamified DMHIs (Table 3; eResults in Supplement 1). Furthermore, no difference was found between DMHIs that were not aesthetically sophisticated (k, 7; g, 0.34) compared to those that were (k, 4; g, 0.13, Table 3), nor between DMHIs that were accessible (k, 2; g, 0.24) vs inaccessible to the public (k, 9; g, 0.25).
Trial Design Characteristics
Risk of bias was found to influence treatment effects such that RCTs with a low risk of bias (k, 8; g, 0.13) had smaller effects compared to those with some concerns about risk of bias (k, 3; g, 0.74). However, there were no significant associations between treatment effects and either sample size, participant attrition, publication year, comparison conditions, or outcome measures (Table 3; eResults in Supplement 1).
Depression Efficacy Outcomes
The random-effects meta-analysis found a modest therapeutic effect of gamified DMHIs on depression outcomes compared to control conditions (g, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.08 to 0.47; z, 2.80; P < .005) (Figure 2B). Visual inspection of the forest plot, Q statistic, and I2 statistic identified significant heterogeneity in effects across RCTs (Q8 = 17.28; P = .03, I2 = 53.69%). Visual inspection of the funnel plot and Egger test for bias (t7 = 1.11; P = .30) did not suggest publication bias was present.
Depression Moderator Outcomes
Participant Characteristics
There were no significant associations between participant characteristics (eg, age and biological sex) and treatment effects on depression outcomes (Table 3). Although descriptively larger, there was no difference between participants with clinically significant symptoms (k, 7; g, 0.23) and those without (k, 2; g, 0.76).
Intervention Characteristics
Gamified DMHIs that had imposed time limits exhibited larger effects (k, 4; g, 0.63) compared to DMHIs that did not (k, 5; g, 0.12) (Table 3). However, there was no significant association between treatment duration and therapeutic effects (Table 3). There was also no significant difference in treatment effects across gamified DMHIs (Table 3; eResults in Supplement 1). Additionally, there were no significant differences between DMHIs that were not aesthetically sophisticated (k, 2; g, 0.47) compared to DMHIs that were (k, 7; g, 0.23), between DMHIs delivered on a computer (k, 7; g, 0.37) compared to a videogame console (k, 2; g, 0.05), or between those that were accessible (k, 8; g, 0.29) vs inaccessible (k, 1; g, 0.30) to the public (Table 3).
Trial Design Characteristics
There were no significant associations between treatment effects and sample size, participant attrition, publication year, comparison conditions, or outcome measures (Table 3; eResults in Supplement 1). Finally, risk of bias did not significantly influence treatment effects, with little difference found between RCTs with high concerns (k, 2; g, 0.26), some concerns (k, 2 g, 0.24), and low concerns (k, 5; g, 0.26).
Anxiety Efficacy Outcomes
The random-effects meta-analysis found a small non-significant effect of gamified DMHIs on anxiety outcomes compared to control conditions (g, 0.07; 95% CI, −0.02 to 0.17; z, 1.48; P < .14) (Figure 2C). Visual inspection of the forest plot, Q statistic, and I2 statistic identified little heterogeneity (Q11 = 6.25; P = .86; I2 = 0%). Visual inspection of the funnel plot and Egger test for bias (t10 = 0.35; P = .73) did not suggest publication bias was present.
Anxiety Moderator Outcomes
Participant Characteristics
There were no significant associations between participant characteristics (eg, age and biological sex) and treatment effects on anxiety outcomes (Table 3). Similarly, there were no differences between participants with clinically significant symptoms (k, 9; g, 0.10) and those without (k, 3; g, 0.03) (Table 3).
Intervention Characteristics
There was no significant association between treatment duration and therapeutic effects (Table 3). Additionally, there was no significant difference between specific DMHIs for anxiety (Table 3; eResults in Supplement 1). Furthermore, there was no significant difference between DMHIs that imposed a time limit (k, 9; g, 0.04) compared to DMHIs that did not (k, 3; g, 0.19). Finally, there were no differences between DMHIs that were aesthetically sophisticated (k, 7; g, 0.09) or accessible to the public (k, 4; g, 0.08), compared to those DMHIS that were not aesthetically sophisticated (k, 5; g, 0.05) or inaccessible to the public (k, 8; g, 0.06).
Trial Design Characteristics
There were no significant associations between treatment effects and either sample size, attrition, publication year, comparison conditions, or outcome measures (Table 3; eResults in Supplement 1). Finally, risk of bias did not significantly influence treatment effects, with little descriptive difference between RCTs with high concerns (k, 2; g, 0.06), some concerns (k, 3; g, 0.01), and low concerns (k, 7; g, 0.11).
Discussion
This systematic review and meta-analysis examined the therapeutic effects of gamified DMHIs for pediatric anxiety, depression, and ADHD and explored moderators of treatment effects. A modest therapeutic effect of gamified DMHIs was identified for both ADHD and depression outcomes (g, 0.28) but not for anxiety outcomes (g, 0.07). Several DMHI moderators were identified for ADHD and depression outcomes.
First, sex differences in treatment effects were observed for ADHD, with RCTs that had more male participants having larger effects. On one hand, this is consistent with literature identifying sex differences in the phenomenology, clinical presentation, and neurobiology of female individuals with ADHD.52,53 On the other hand, this finding may be less influenced by underlying neurobiological sex differences but rather the specific gamification approaches used in DMHIs to promote engagement. For instance, gamified DMHIs for ADHD used action and driving games that may appeal more to some patients who have an interest in engaging with those types of games. Further research is needed to elucidate the cause of the discrepancy in treatment effects to optimize therapeutic outcomes for female individuals with ADHD.
Second, computer-based delivery—compared to other modalities such as tablets or videogame consoles—produced larger treatment effects for ADHD. Given the proliferation of mobile Health applications for mental health, it is important to consider possible reasons for this finding. For instance, the context in which gamified DMHIs are used may influence outcomes. In these RCTs, computers were stationary and often placed in environments with limited distractions (eg, a desktop or laptop in a quiet room with a research assistant nearby). Meanwhile, tablets can be used in a variety of settings (eg, home, in the backseat of a car, and waiting rooms of physicians’ offices) that have a higher likelihood of distraction. Similarly, the other intervention characteristics, such as imposing time limits on the use of gamified DMHIs, were associated with larger treatment effects for depression—which may also lead to its delivery in contexts that used a structured approach and increased focus on DMHI content. Thus, it may be important to balance the accessibility of gamified DMHIs alongside contextual factors (eg, setting and time limits) to optimize clinical outcomes.
Current gamified DMHIs did not produce significant benefit for anxiety severity. Given that DMHIs show modest benefit for adults with anxiety,18 it is worth considering whether gamified DMHIs use the optimal approach to delivering therapeutic components or whether therapists and other expert health care professionals are needed to deliver these therapeutic components (eg, exposure therapy). Intervention (eg, DMHI game design) or trial design characteristics may have affected findings (eg, using the Spence Children’s Anxiety Scale as the outcome measure and robust comparison conditions). As many DMHIs were not publicly accessible, further investigations will necessitate collaborative academic-industry partnerships. which can leverage collaborative expertise (eg, game design, computer programming, and evidence-based treatments) to develop, design, and test empirically informed DMHIs for youth.
Limitations
This report is not without limitations. First, most RCTs used parent- or child-reported outcome measures. While psychometrically valid, a multimodal assessment that incorporates independent evaluator ratings would reduce risk of bias. Additionally, there were limited characteristics available for inclusion across RCTs. Thus, there may be unexamined factors that could also influence treatment effects (eg, participants’ engagement, digital literacy, skill learning assessment, and social determinants).54
Conclusions
Our work identified several areas for future research and highlights the need for establishing reporting guidelines for RCTs on DMHIs in youth.54 First, adverse effects from gamified DMHIs were largely unreported across RCTs, which is a concern due to emerging research suggesting some negative effects from screen time for youth.55,56 Furthermore, minimal information was available about data safety and privacy policies for gamified DMHIs (eg, who has access to users’ data and for what purposes). It will be important for future RCTs to report adverse effects and consider data safety (or data privacy policies) before incorporating gamified DMHIs into clinical practice.
Second, there was inconsistent reporting of concurrent pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy across RCTs. As gamified DMHIs can play an important role in the continuum of pediatric mental health care, this is important information. Future RCTs should report concurrent pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions received by participants during study participation, which can provide insight into the effects of DMHIs as stand-alone or adjunctive therapies. Third, although most RCTs reported the intervention duration, participants’ level of engagement with DMHIs was absent (eg, average or total time interacting with DMHI over the intervention period). This can provide essential information on the dose of DMHIs, which can provide insights into whether the total use (or screen time) relates to treatment outcomes or adverse effects. Furthermore, when reporting information on DMHI dose (eg, engagement and duration), it will be important to consider the context and settings in which DMHIs are used as well—which can moderate DMHI treatment effects. Finally, it will be important to monitor the efficacy, safety profile, and dose of DMHIs over the short term and long term. This should provide greater insight into the lasting effects of DMHIs, which is important for adoption in clinical practice.
In summary, our findings demonstrated that gamified DHMIs are modestly efficacious for children and adolescents with ADHD or depression. While moderators of treatment effects provide initial insights to optimize clinical outcomes, several questions remain that warrant future investigation. Addressing these questions is particularly important, as most commercially available DMHIs remain untested in RCTs.57

Video Games in ADHD and Non-ADHD Children: Modalities of Use and Association With ADHD Symptoms
Laura Masi 1,*, Pascale Abadie 2, Catherine Herba 3, Mutsuko Emond 4, Marie-Pier Gingras 5, Leila Ben Amor 4
	Author information
	Article notes
	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC7994285  PMID: 33777866
Abstract
Video game addiction in young children is relevant, but it is especially important for children with ADHD. In order to obtain more data about the use of video games by Canadian children, and in particular by ADHD children, we explored the modalities of use (playtime, addiction score and usage by age) and compared them between ADHD and non-ADHD children. We then examined associations between addiction and ADHD symptoms and explored innovative results about the gender impact. Our study was cross-sectional, multicenter in child psychiatrist departments, exploratory and descriptive. We recruited three groups of children aged 4–12 years: the ADHD Group, the Clinical-Control Group and the Community-Control Group. For each group, the material used consisted of questionnaires completed by one of the parents. Data collection took place from December 2016 to August 2018 in Montreal (n = 280). Our study highlighted a vulnerability in ADHD children: they would exhibit more addictive behaviors with respect to video games (Addiction score: 1.1025 in ADHD Group vs. 0.6802 in Community-Control Group) and prolonged periods of use. We also observed a correlation between the severity of ADHD symptoms and excessive use of video games (p = 0.000). Children with severe ADHD showed significantly higher addiction scores and, in a multiple regression analysis a combination of gender and ADHD explained the excessive use of video games.
Keywords: video game, ADHD, addiction, dependence, playtime, children
Introduction
Children and adolescents report playing video games frequently, and we can see that this use is being reported at ever-younger ages (1). For example, 91% of children aged 2–17 are reported to play video games (2). New games on smartphones and tablets are rapidly being developed, many of which target young children including toddlers (3). The use of screens starts at an early age with more than 30% of children having used a tablet before the age of 2, and often for playing video games. From about the age of 4, the computer has become an increasingly popular medium for children to play video games (4). When children get older, a vast array of devices are used such as consoles, computers, tablets and smartphones, both online and offline.
The period between 4 and 12 years is therefore an important stage where children are increasingly exposed to video games and as such represents a relevant developmental period to study factors linked to excessive or addictive use of video games. Studies tend to show that ~2.0–5.5% of adolescents/young adults exhibit an addiction to video games (5). Multiple factors including the types of video games, personality characteristics and early exposure contribute to this addiction, but its origins are complex and gaps exist, particularly pertaining to such use by children (6).
In 2018, the World Health Organization (WHO) introduced Gaming disorder (GD) to the International Classification of Disease-11 (ICD-11) (7) and highlighted three symptoms: “impaired control over gaming, increasing priority given to gaming and continuation or escalation of gaming despite the occurrence of negative consequences” (8). Similarly, Internet gaming disorder (IGD) was included in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) in 2013, but it was categorized as requiring further study and not sufficiently well-established to be a part of the official classification of mental disorders for routine clinical use (9). IGD requires experiencing five or more of the following symptoms within a year: “preoccupation or obsession, withdrawal, tolerance, loss of control, loss of interest, continued overuse, deceiving, escape of negative feelings, functional impairment” (8). In this article, we will use the expression “video game addiction” which, in summary, shall be interpreted as a repeated use of video games that results in a significant impairment to an individual's social, family or professional life over a prolonged period of time.
The association between attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms and video game addiction is observed among children and adolescents, but it is as yet not understood (10). The relationship between ADHD and the excessive use of video games may likely be bidirectional and needs to be clarified. In addition, most studies have been conducted among adolescents, and data for preschool children is almost non-existent apart from a 2018 study by Paulus et al. (11) ADHD is a risk factor for addiction in general (12), and it is the most frequent psychopathology in video game addiction (13). It is already listed in the DSM-5 as comorbid with Internet gaming disorder (9). However, the use of online games is mostly among adolescents and young adults and less in children who usually start with offline video games (4).
Hypotheses and Objectives
We've seen the major role that video games play in today's society, particularly among teenagers but also among increasingly younger children. Video gaming is typically a leisure activity, but its practice among some people can turn into an addiction and have negative consequences. Following an overview of the literature, we observed that the majority of studies on this topic are cross-sectional and prospective. These studies are conducted among teenagers and young adults without a control group and have seldom targeted children and only very rarely young (preschool or early primary school-aged) children. The scales used to measure video game addiction are highly variable and unvalidated. Furthermore, diagnosis of ADHD or other comorbidities is not generally confirmed through use of validated scales or by a specialized doctor [(child) psychologist, pediatrician].
In this context and with a view to adding to knowledge about video gaming and its potential risks in potentially vulnerable populations, we sought to compare, in an exploratory manner, children aged 4–12 from a clinical population (divided into two subgroups, ADHD and non-ADHD) with children aged 4–12 from the general population through use of standardized, validated scales. Based on our hypotheses, we expected to see an increase in addictive video gaming behaviors and in duration of video game use among children in the ADHD subgroup in comparison to the community population. Another of our hypotheses was that the intensity of ADHD symptomatology correlates positively with addictive behaviors.
In order to better understand the relationship between video game use/addiction and ADHD in preschool/school children, we conducted a descriptive and exploratory study with the following objectives:
	(1) To determine the modalities of use of video games (playtime, addiction score and usage by age) in children with ADHD compared to children without ADHD.
	(2) To examine the associations between video game addiction and ADHD symptoms.
	(3) To explore the gender difference in video game use, the type of video games played by children with ADHD and the impact of parents on gaming.
Methods
Participants
The participants were children aged 4–12 who comprised the three study groups. The first group was made up of children with ADHD (clinical group); the second was made up of children presenting one or more mental health diagnoses other than ADHD (clinical control group); and the third was made up of children from the general community (community control group). All participants' parents had to be able to speak and understand French. The only exclusion criteria were the inability to read, write and understand French, and the presentation of an intellectual handicap or active psychotic symptoms.
The age range of 4–12 was selected in order to more specifically target video gaming among school and preschool-aged children. It would be more difficult to direct our research questions at a broader age range in light of the inherent heterogeneous aspect already present in the children. With this in mind, the aspects evaluated as part of this study were not specific but rather related to individuals' general functioning.
Participants in the clinical and clinical control groups were recruited at the outpatient pediatric (ADHD and development) and child psychiatric (outpatient age 6–12, Tourette and age 0–5) clinics at the CHU Sainte-Justine, and the outpatient child psychiatric clinics at the Hôpital-Rivière-des-Prairies of the CIUSSS du Nord-de-l'Île-de-Montréal (CIUSSS NIM). These persons were recruited by a research assistant while waiting for an appointment in the waiting room at the outpatient pediatric or child psychiatric clinic. The assistant proposed participating in the study to all waiting patients and their parents and informed them about the project. The third group (community control group) was recruited at day camps in the Montreal, Laurentides and Lanaudière regions. Parents with their children were approached by a research assistant as they arrived at or left the day camp. The recruitment procedure followed was identical to that detailed above.
The exclusion criteria for parents and children were being unable to read, write and understand French. Participants ought not to have an intellectual disability or to be actively psychotic.
Study Design
The study was cross-sectional, multicentre (CHU Sainte-Justine, CIUSSS du Nord-de-l'Île-de-Montréal) in child psychiatric departments, exploratory and descriptive. The material used consists of questionnaires to be completed by one of the parents for each group. Data was collected between December 2016 and August 2018 in Montreal. This study is a first step toward evaluating this type of problem. The tools used consisted of validated questionnaires (three questionnaires described below in the Measures section) to be completed by one of the parents in one sitting (with a 30-min estimated completion time). After obtaining consent, a numbered envelope was given to each participant containing the questionnaires and a recruitment letter). This letter restated the main information concerning the research project and the project procedure and provided the telephone number of the research coordinator at the CHU Sainte-Justine in the event that participants needed additional information.
In the clinical group, in addition to the questionnaires, participants' medical records were consulted once by a research assistant to verify psychiatric diagnoses. All ADHD and/or psychiatric diagnoses were made by a child psychiatrist from the CHU Sainte-Justine or the CIUSSS NIM. Diagnoses were arrived at following a comprehensive, multidisciplinary assessment based on the validated diagnostic criteria from the reference diagnostic guide in psychiatry in North America, the DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders).
Measures
The tools used consisted of three questionnaires completed by one of the parents in one sitting: the Sociodemographic Questionnaire with added questions on video game use among children and parents, the SDQ (Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire) and the Questionnaire sur l'attention et l'ordinateur (questionnaire on attention and computers) (QUATTORD).
Sociodemographic Questionnaire With Added Questions on Video Game Use
General sociodemographic data were documented, including participant age, sex, current education level or last level achieved, family status, ethnic origin, etc., as well as the time of year of questionnaire completion. A standard sociodemographic questionnaire was used to collect this information supplemented by questions about screen time and, in particular, video game use. The added questions included questions about total screen time devoted to video gaming or to watching movies or television during the week and on weekends/holidays, frequency of use by game type and number of electronic devices in the child's possession. We added questions concerning video game use that we then categorized based on gaming habits. Although there was no consensus concerning this classification, video games can generally be divided in the following groups: creative games, educational games, non-violent character-based games and violent character-based or non-character-based games. We also added questions to this questionnaire for parents about their own video gaming habits and their perceptions concerning their children's gaming habits with a view to collecting preliminary data to guide our subsequent research questions (14).
Psychometric Data
QUATTORD (Questionnaire de l'attention et de l'ordinateur)
This is a questionnaire to evaluate ADHD symptoms and video game use. It includes 19 questions on ADHD symptoms (a 4-point Likert scale on which 0 = not at all and 3 = very much), nine questions on screen use (descriptive) and 11 questions on video game addiction symptoms (4-point Likert scale on which 0 = never and 3 = always). The questions on ADHD symptoms and addiction symptoms are based on the diagnostic criteria from the DSM-5 (9), and this questionnaire is easy to complete. It was used by Paulus in a study on ADHD and video gaming among more than 1,000 school and preschool-aged children and has been used since the launch of that multinational study (15). The results obtained using this questionnaire were used to generate empirical data aligned to the data in the literature.
SDQ (Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire)
The SDQ is a validated questionnaire consisting of 25 items evaluating strengths (e.g., prosocial behaviors) and difficulties (e.g., hyperactivity, emotional regulation difficulties) in children aged 4–16 (16). We used the version to be completed by parents (there is also a version for teenagers and one to be completed by teachers). The 25 items are divided into five categories (emotional symptoms, conduct problems, attention deficit/hyperactivity, peer problems, and prosocial behaviors), each with five questions. The original, validated English version of this instrument has sound psychometric properties, which are found in the French version. Cronbach's alpha for the total difficulties score was acceptable at 0.77 (17). The goal was to use an additional independent assessment (independent from the QUATTORD) to obtain an overview of the children's general internalizing and externalizing behaviors.
Ethical Approvals
The research project was approved by the research ethics board of the CHU Sainte-Justine (the main project center). Confidentiality and anonymity were maintained throughout the study and during data transcription. The participants' identities were coded using the numbers indicated on the envelopes. The questionnaire results were organized in an Excel spreadsheet and identified using these numbers. The computer holding this data is stored under lock and key in the research offices of the recruitment centers. If parents agreed voluntarily to participate after explanations were provided, they could then sign the consent form. Consent forms were signed in duplicate with one copy given to the parents. We also asked the children for their consent.
Statistical Analysis Strategy
First, ANOVA (analysis of variance) were conducted to compare video game playtime and addiction scores according to QUATTORD between the three study groups and between age categories for each group (4–6, 6–8, 8–10, and 10–12 years). We then clarified the differences identified by post-hoc analyses (Hochberg and Games-Howell). Correlation analyses were then used to assess associations between the severity of ADHD symptoms and SDQ items in relation to dependency. We then conducted a multiple regression analysis to explore the combination between the gender and having ADHD or a clinical diagnosis.
Lastly, we used multiple linear regression to evaluate associations between playtime and addiction score (continuous dependent variables obtained via the QUATTORD) and income, parental video gaming habits and parental perceptions concerning the impact of video gaming on their children (categorical independent variables obtained via the sociodemographic questionnaire).
The statistical significance threshold was α = 0.05.
Results
Descriptive Analyses
A total of 280 participants completed the study: 98 participants (35.0%) in the ADHD Group, 37 participants (13.2%) in the Clinical-Control Group and 145 in the Community-Control Group (51.8%) (Table 1). Participants were exclusively French-Canadian Caucasians. The mean age was 7.68 years and there was no significant difference between the three groups with respect to age (p > 0.005). With regard to gender, the proportion of boys and girls in the study for each group is also presented in Table 1.
Table 1.
Proportion of boys and girl in each group.
Gender	Total	ADHD group	Clinic-control group	Community-control group
Boys	183 (65.4%)	79 (80.6%)	31 (83.8%)	73 (50.3%)
Girls	97 (34.6%)	19 (19.4%)	6 (16.2%)	72 (49.7%)
Total	280	98 (35.0%)	37 (13.2%)	145 (51.8%)
Open in a new tab
Modalities of Use Between ADHD and Non-ADHD Children
ANOVA showed that the video game playtime was significantly higher for the ADHD Group compared to the Community-Control Group during both weekdays and weekends. The Hochberg and Games-Howell post-hoc analysis between the three groups were significant and identical with regard to video game playtime on weekdays and weekends. They indicated a longer time spent on video games in the ADHD Group (p = 0.002 for ANOVA and post-hoc analysis) (Table 2).
Table 2.
Playtime during the week and the weekend.
Group	Mean number of hours during the week	Mean number of hours during the weekend	p-value with respect to Community-Control Group
ADHD group	2.05	3.01	0.002 for week and weekend
Clinical-control group	1.86	2.93	0.335 for week and 0.135 for weekend
Community-control group	1.44	2.36	NA
Open in a new tab
Statistically significant p ≤ 0.05.
We compared video game addiction scores obtained at the QUATTORD by ANOVA. Addiction was significantly higher for the ADHD Group compared to the Community-Control Group (p = 0.000 for ANOVA and post-hoc analysis) (Table 3).
Table 3.
Addiction scores for video games.
Group	Addiction score	p-value with respect to community-control group
ADHD group	1.1025	0.000
Clinical-control group	0.9355	0.119
Community-control group	0.6802	NA
Open in a new tab
Statistically significant p ≤ 0.05.
For all groups, we compared the time spent on video games between age categories by ANOVA. Since differences were only significant in the ADHD Group, we then conducted a post-hoc analysis in this group only. We found that time spent on video games was significantly higher for the 10–12 age group compared to the 4–6 age group during weekdays and weekends (Table 4).
Table 4.
Usage during the week and the weekend among age categories of the ADHD group.
Age category	Mean number of hours during the week	Mean number of hours during the weekend	p-value with respect to the 10–12 years-old age category
4–6 years-old	1.54	2.32	0.005 for the week and 0.000 for the weekend
7–9 years-old	1.95	2.95	0.027
10–12 years-old	2.69	3.79	NA
Open in a new tab
Statistically significant p ≤ 0.05.
Associations Between the Severity of ADHD Symptoms and Video Game Addiction
There was a significant correlation (Pearson correlation) for each ADHD symptom (impulsivity, inattention, hyperactivity) and video game addiction. The strongest correlation was with impulsivity (Table 5).
Table 5.
Correlation between symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, impulsivity, and video game addiction.
Symptoms	Video game addiction	p-value
Inattention	0.279	0.000
Hyperactivity	0.294	0.000
Impulsivity	0.310	0.000
Open in a new tab
Statistically significant p ≤ 0.05.
There was a significant correlation (r = 0.182 for p-value = 0.003) between hyperactivity symptoms and weekend use time. There was no significant correlation for the other symptoms (inattention and impulsivity) and the time of use during the weekend. Similarly, we did not find a positive correlation for ADHD symptoms and the time of use of video games during the week.
Relationship Between SDQ Items and the Use of Video Games
All correlations between SDQ items and video game addiction scores found by the QUATTORD are highly significant with p < 0.01: positive correlations with emotional problems (0.321), conduct disorders (0.293), hyperactivity (0.242) and peer problems (0.201); and negative correlation with prosocial abilities (−0.272).
Correlations between SDQ items and playtime during the week are positive and significant for hyperactivity (0.151) and peer problems (0.143) as well as emotional problems (0.208, highly significant for this last correlation with p < 0.01). Correlations between SDQ items and playtime during the weekend are positive and highly significant (p < 0.01) for emotional problems (0.242), conduct disorders (0.164), and hyperactivity (0.229).
Exploratory Results
According to our regression analyses where we looked for variables predicting addiction, we found a significant interaction between addiction, clinical groups and gender, based on a linear regression (0.533). That is, the boys in the study showed more dependence if they belonged to one of the two clinical groups (ADHD Group and Clinical-Control Group) and, more specifically, ADHD boys had the highest addiction scores. We did not find this trend for girls with equivalent addiction scores, regardless of the group (Clinical-Control Group or Community-Control Group).
With respect to the types of games played, 62 participants (24.8%) often played creative games (e.g., Minecraft), 66 participants (26.5%) often played educational games (e.g., Oregon Trail), and 51 participants (8.4%) often played violent games (e.g., Call of Duty) (Table 6).
Table 6.
Types of video games played most frequently.
Game type	Frequency played
	Never	Rarely	Sometimes	Often
Creative	19.2%	29.2%	26.8%	24.8%
Educational/concentration	14.9%	21.3%	37.3%	26.5
Violent human-like	62.9%	13.1%	15.5%	8.4%
Violent cartoon-based	51.2%	19.4%	19.4%	17.5%
Non-violent character-based	22.9%	17.3%	35.3%	24.5%
Open in a new tab
With respect to parents, we found that only 17.4% of parents played video games. A negative association was then identified between average household income with addiction score and children's playtime, indicating that video game use (playtime and addiction) varies inversely with income. This corresponds to the data from the scientific literature indicating that a low socioeconomic stratum is associated with development of video gaming addiction and increased playtime (18). Using linear regression, we then identified positive correlations between video game use among children (playtime and addiction score) and parental perception of the negative impact of video gaming on their children (excessive playtime and conduct problems after playing video games) (Table 7).
Table 7.
Multivariate linear regression of income and parental perception with children's playtime and addiction score.
	Playtime during week (hours)	Playtime on weekends (hours)	Addiction score
	B	p	B	P	B	p
Household income (1–6)	−11.9	0.000	−17.3	0.002	−0.9	0.051
Do you find that your child spends too much time playing video games? (No = 0; Yes = 1)	28.3	0.008	53.4	0.000	4.5	0.000
Do you find that this has positive or negative impact on your child's behavior? (Neutral/negative = 0; Positive = 1)	38	0.009	50.4	0.003	2.8	0.019
Open in a new tab
Discussion
Research on the relationship between ADHD and video game addiction has mainly been conducted among adolescents and young adults, and studies like ours that focus on children are rare (19). Our study highlighted a vulnerability in ADHD children as they exhibit more addictive behaviors with respect to video games and demonstrate prolonged periods of use. We also observed a correlation between the severity of ADHD symptoms and excessive use of video games. Finally, our results suggest that the association between males and ADHD is an additional risk factor for the excessive use of video games.
Modalities of Use and Comparison Between ADHD and Non-ADHD Children
The duration of use was significantly higher in the ADHD Group compared to the Community-Control Group, during both the week and the weekend. We also found that, in accordance with the literature, when ADHD symptoms are more severe, playtime would be significantly longer (20). These results indicate that caution must be exercised when children with ADHD play video games.
Furthermore, the degree of video game addiction was also significantly higher in children with ADHD compared to children in the community group. In the former, we indeed found, as early as preschool age, a higher tendency to develop addictive behaviors toward video games compared to children of the same age without ADHD. This would be even higher in ADHD children with behavioral problems since they might be less able to accept a certain control over their playtime. In addition, ADHD patients are at risk of addictive behavior and, more specifically, an ADHD diagnosis should increase the risk of being dependent on online video games (21).
The explanatory mechanisms of this attraction by ADHD patients to video games include becoming bored quickly, intolerance to waiting, difficulties with self-control, difficulties being motivated, the need for intense stimulation and difficulties in interpersonal relationships (22). On the other hand, studies in neurobiology have shown a release of striatal dopamine involving the brain reward circuits during video game use improving the ability to concentrate during playtime which would provide a sense of comfort for young people with ADHD (23, 24). Risk factors for the development of addiction to video games are also typical traits of ADHD (impulsivity, difficulty in managing emotions and lack of prosocial capacity, for example) (25). Video games also seem to allow young ADHD patients to offset the frustrations and failures of real life with the successes and achievements they perceive while playing, which largely explains their appeal (22).
Comparison of Usage by Age
The only significant difference found was in the ADHD Group for the 10–12 age category compared to the 4–6 age category with a longer playtime among 10–12 year-olds during the week and the weekend. According to Lemmens, the younger the video games are played, the higher the risk of developing addiction during adolescence, a period of vulnerability to addictive behavior (26). Indeed, early and regular exposure to video games with long playing sessions is one of the most common risk factors for cyberaddiction (27). According to our results, this risk factor is even more present in the ADHD Group, which presents at its core vulnerabilities to addiction.
ADHD children seem to show an increase in video game playtime as they get older, while the other two groups of children do not differ by age. This may mean that early exposure by a young ADHD patient is a risk factor for increasing use as they get older, especially at the onset of puberty and during adolescence. Indeed, adolescence is a high-risk period for addictions among young ADHD patients (12).
Associations Between ADHD Symptoms and Video Game Addiction
We observed a significant correlation between all ADHD symptoms and those of video game addiction. According to Yen, ADHD symptoms (inattention, hyperactivity and impulsivity) among ADHD patients who are also cyberaddicts would indeed appear with more intensity than in ADHD patients who are not. More specifically, inattention seems to be the most aggravated symptom of video game abuse (28). However, in our study, impulsivity appears to be the most correlated to video game addiction. This is consistent with Bioulac's hypothesis that ADHD children would also have more behavioral problems with impulsivity related to video games (29). In the same vein and with regard to the impact of screen use, the more often young people consult their smartphone, the greater the risk of developing ADHD symptoms (30).
Thus, there appears to be a link between ADHD symptoms and the excessive use of video games, although at this stage it is not possible to predict the direction of causation. Moreover, it is important to differentiate the ADHD symptoms that result from an excessive use of video games from ADHD as a neurodevelopmental disorder.
Association Between SDQ Items and the Use of Video Games
We found a highly significant positive association between behavioral problems on one hand, and video game addiction and playtime during the weekend on the other. The uncontrolled use of screens during childhood, whether for video gaming or otherwise, would therefore lead to a high risk of behavioral difficulties. Similarly, according to a study by Poulain et al. among children aged 2–6, the use of screens (including video games) is a major risk factor for the development of behavioral difficulties (31). Moreover, there is a strong association between early exposure to screens and the subsequent development of aggressive and antisocial behaviors (32, 33). In light of all those results and ours, it appears that excessive use of video games may negatively influence emotional and behavioral problems and the well-being of children from their early years.
We obtained a positive and significant correlation between socialization difficulties and video game addiction and playtime during the week, while the association between video game addiction and prosocial abilities was negative. Indeed, according to the literature, there is a strong association between increased screen time and reduced social development in children (34). Socialization difficulties are risk factors for video game addiction (27) and at the same time, they will be encouraged by the use of screens by pushing young people to overuse them in avoidance behaviors. Among young people who are not socially at ease and experience a sense of failure in their lives, online interactions reduce negative feelings such as loneliness and boredom (6). That being said, when parents limit and monitor screen time, children would develop better prosocial skills.
Exploratory Results
Genre
We looked for the implication of gender and more specification for the use of video games. First, a majority of boys were in both clinical groups (ADHD Group and Clinical-Control Group). This corresponds to the clinical and epidemiological reality where the gender ratio for ADHD is two boys for one girl and where other neurodevelopmental disorders are also predominantly found in males. Moreover, according to Paulus et al., more boys than girls have video game consoles, and more girls than boys are non-players (11). We looked for covariables that influence addiction through a regression analysis. According to this regression, if we look at the interactions between groups and gender, ADHD boys appear to be the most at risk of video game addiction compared to boys in the other two groups. On the other hand, there does not seem to be any differences with respect to girls. Boys with a child psychiatry diagnosis of ADHD, therefore, seem to be the most vulnerable to video game addiction. It would then be a question of orienting the evaluation and care according to this fragility, which should not be neglected.
Video Games
It should be noted that studies on video games do not usually take into account the type of video games played, yet it seems essential to begin to make such distinctions if we want to make accurate recommendations. There are indeed many different types of video games and different ways of playing that likely have an impact on potential overuse. In this preliminary study, we tried to describe the games played by the children in order to get an initial overview of the situation. We found that the most popular video games played among 4–12 year-olds were educational rather than violent games. Educational games (those designed for a primary purpose other than pure entertainment) have pedagogical virtues that can be particularly useful for children with learning difficulties (35). This type of data can be used to refine future research and analysis in order not only to prevent the negative aspects of video games, but also to optimize their use.
The data from the literature also suggest that the relationship between ADHD symptom severity and video game addiction severity depends on the type of game preferred or played most often. This relationship may also depend on the level of reinforcement of the most-played game; that said, the reinforcement strategies of video games are constantly evolving to attract more and more players and become as addictive as possible. These changes have been bolstered by the initial success of massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs), which have strong reinforcement structures, followed by other games that have increased reinforcement levels while creating a potentially higher risk of developing excessive use (e.g., Fortnite).
Parental Impact
No data exists regarding the use of video games by parents. In our study, we found that a majority of parents do not play video games at all. This has an impact on the parents' understanding and management of video games. Ideally, it is recommended that screen time be shared between parents and children according to the Canadian Pediatric Society guidelines (36). Poor relationships with parents, poor parental control, hostile parenting, and lack of rules on screen use are risk factors for video game addition. Parents must serve as role models with regard to screen use (37).
We identified a negative association between income with addiction score and playtime, indicating that video game use (playtime and addiction) varies inversely with income. This corresponds to the data from the scientific literature indicating that a low socioeconomic stratum is associated with development of video gaming addiction and increased playtime (38). Radesky and Christakis hypothesizes that parents from lower socioeconomic strata have fewer educational requirements in relation to video game use. Additionally, these parents appear to use video games as a pastime more frequently (39). Our results reflected this observation.
We explored video game use by parents, since the literature was weak in this area (37). Parental modeling and educational guidelines for video gaming appear to have an impact on IGD. The Canadian Pediatric Society (CPS) also recommends that parents use screen time to create opportunities for shared activities with children, and a majority of parents in our study did not play video games (37). We also identified a positive correlation between video gaming among children (playtime and addiction score) and parental perception of excessive playtime among their children. When it comes to estimating their children's playtime, parents appear to tend to overestimate the time their children dedicate to socially desirable activities (e.g., reading, homework) and underestimate the time they spend on socially undesirable activities (e.g., television, video games) (40). Moreover, many parents find that the official recommendations concerning children's screen time from pediatric learned societies such as the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) or the CPS are not realistic and could never be put into practice (41). They assert that they do not know how much screen time or, in particular, video game playtime is healthy or excessive (42). Parental evaluation of screen time in our study questionnaires may be erroneous if parents are confused about the recommendations or biased by social desirability.
We found a positive correlation between video game use in children (playtime and addiction score) and parental perception of negative impact on their children's behavior after playing video games. To our knowledge, the links between video game use among children and this negative perception have never been discussed. As part of this exploratory analysis, we were consequently able to collect preliminary data on this topic, and it may be interesting to look at other possible correlations based on the data collected through our questionnaires. It is important to note that these results apply only to a clinical population (clinical and community groups). Although parental concerns are underscored, they may also be somewhat directed in that parents completing the scales for the project could be particularly concerned about this issue in relation to their children. According to Schneider et al., a positive perception of video gaming could lead to more frequent usage problems in children (43), whereas others have indicated that a positive perception does not have any impact. Regardless, the concept of perception remains highly subjective, multifaceted and difficult to capture.
Time of Year of Questionnaire Completion
We wanted to include this information, as it could create a bias in relation to data collection concerning video game use in that the majority of questionnaires were completed during the summer, when, based on our observations in the clinical setting, in the context of vacation and the absence of a structured schedule, children very likely spend more time playing video games. Recruitment levels were also higher due to the availability of research students.
Strengths and Limitations
Strengths
Although certain limitations and strengths were identified, we wish to take the reflection process further. The study has a certain number of strong points, such as the facts that the population was made up of children at least 4 years of age in the literature on video gaming and that the study was multicentre to ensure that the population was as varied as possible, thereby corresponding more closely to the general population. Our study is also very interesting in that it included control groups, the use of which enhances validity, particularly since the study involved evaluating behaviors in a specific segment of the population. The comparisons in the study are all the more relevant and useful since, in addition to the community group, we had a clinical control group, making even more detailed comparisons possible. From a statistical viewpoint, we took care to perform, with support from statisticians, appropriate analyses for our variables taking our hypotheses into account. We were successful in fully characterizing the population and the data on parents. Lastly, we were able to establish a highly comprehensive overview of the current knowledge based on a review of the literature.
We used multiple validated, reliable, standardized measures; a wide variety of measurement scales on video game addiction have been used in research on that topic, but none has been validated. Additionally, numerous studies have used non-representative, self-selected samples and/or small samples. This both compromises the comparability of results and raises questions as to diagnosis validity in participants. In this regard, the lack of consensus and use of overly broad criteria imply the overly broad use of the diagnosis of video game addiction in cases that could instead be classified as excessive behaviors not resulting in functional impairment and falling within the societal reality of screen use.
Similarly, in contrast to the majority of ADHD studies, in which the diagnosis is not confirmed, the ADHD diagnosis of our participants was made following comprehensive assessment at specialized clinics. The same applies to diagnosis in the clinical control group. What is more, the use of multiple comprehensive questionnaires further supports the validity of our results.
Limitations
The results of this study should be interpreted in light of its limitations. Since the questionnaires are completed by the parents themselves, there may be a measurement bias with regard to their subjectivity. In addition, the possibility of an ADHD diagnosis in the community population has not been eliminated and could lead to a bias in the results. Lastly, it must be noted that the study is not longitudinal, and we were also not able to test any mechanisms that could explain patterns of findings. Additionally, questions are asked only about video game use at T0 of questionnaire completion, which does not allow for a broader perspective over time. Playtime may also be underestimated, since the measures are based on scales completed by the parents, who may have been influenced by lack of knowledge about actual playtime and/or social desirability to indicate values lower than actual. The possibility of ADHD diagnosis in the community population was not ruled out and could lead to a bias in the results.
Perspectives and Reflection
The data collected on video gaming and parents are exploratory. These topics are of interest, and based on these initial results, we can now delve further into our hypotheses and direct our research questions. Next, diagnoses in the clinical control group were documented but not analyzed and could be incorporated into future subanalysis efforts to explore the impact of other diagnoses in child psychiatry (also by expanding recruitment in this subgroup). In addition, the questionnaires were completed by only one of two parents, which could lead to different responses if parents were separated or had different approaches to managing screen time (which we see frequently in the clinical setting). However, in our characterization of the population, we noted that a large majority of parents in our sample were not separated. We also did not track refusals, and the parents who consented appeared very willing to assist, which could indicate underlying problems (at least in their view).
This project lacks a longitudinal aspect, which is conspicuously absent from the literature. To create the most accurate portrait possible of video game use, this activity would have to be tracked over time, while also avoiding situational use. For example, we observed that the majority of recruitment took place in the summer, whereas use doubtless varies depending on whether school is in session or children have a structured schedule as well as their options for outdoor activities.
The current COVID-19 pandemic has greatly affected lifestyles and screen time. Already omnipresent in our lives, screens have become the only means of working, entertaining ourselves, keeping in touch with loved ones, socializing and learning. Moreover, screens became a go-to solution for keeping children busy while parents continued working from home and daycare facilities and schools remained closed. With regard specifically to video gaming during the pandemic, video game use increased significantly during lockdown periods (also generating exponential earnings growth over a period of a few months for the video game industry), but this greater use could also be only temporary.
A next step would be to undertake analyses and explore the impact of video games on family dynamics and academic performance, document the types of video games used and identify any comorbidities potentially influencing this use. Then, although we have studied the adverse effects of video gaming in terms of addiction, it would be useful nonetheless to examine any benefits it may also have. For example, video games may also help to develop certain skills (sense of control, socialization, coordination, etc.) (44) and offer new educational and therapeutic possibilities.
Knowledge about video game addiction continues to grow, and we continue to learn more about potential vulnerability to this addiction among certain individuals based on their mental health diagnosis. In particular, an ADHD diagnosis appears to be a major factor in the development of a video gaming addiction, although this association also appears bidirectional and is not yet fully understood. At the same time, studies on the relationship between ADHD and video game addiction have been conducted primarily in teenagers and young adults and have rarely targeted children. Our study consequently underscores the vulnerability of children with ADHD to excessive video gaming and the consequences of gaming on their symptomatology. We wanted to supplement the analysis component of our study by exploring the role of internal (age, sex) and external (socioeconomic stratum, parents' role) factors, thereby corroborating the concept of a multifaceted relationship behind addictive video gaming behaviors.
Conclusion
ADHD symptoms and video game addiction appear to have a bidirectional relationship in which the ADHD symptoms make video gaming appealing, while play itself exacerbates the ADHD symptoms by providing an activity that continually reinforces the need for instant gratification. Long hours of video gaming may further reinforce and consolidate children's propensity to uncontrolled reactivity and pervasive impatience without coaching to develop more reflection-oriented behaviors. As stated previously, the time dedicated to video gaming is spent at the expense of leisure activities such as sports, music and the arts, which would assist in developing children's attention, self-assurance, behavioral inhibition, discipline, team skills, and socialization. In this context, related studies provide opportunities to reflect on the potential impact on our practice. By exploring the consequences of intensive video gaming for these young children, it is possible to develop intervention approaches to propose to professionals.
Although we understand that video games present risks, it would still be interesting to look at the benefits they can bring. Indeed, it is important to note that they can also help in developing skills such as a sense of control and coordination (45). There is a definite interest in using them as a lever for young people by offering new educational and therapeutic perspectives.
Data Availability Statement
The raw data supporting the conclusions of this article will be made available by the authors, without undue reservation.
Ethics Statement
The studies involving human participants were reviewed and approved by Centre de recherche du CHU Sainte-Justine. Written informed consent to participate in this study was provided by the participants' legal guardian/next of kin.

An Update on LearningWorks for Kids
 LIKE SO MANY OTHER EXPERTS, clinical psychologist Randy Kulman long observed children with ADHD who, despite struggling mightily to pay attention at school, paid attention just fine when playing computer games. He began to consider an idea: What if he could design a program that uses popular computer games and apps to help these children identify and further improve their executive functioning skills, then learn to generalize these skills to their day-to-day school lives?
Kulman’s vision became a reality several years back. His program, LearningWorks for Kids (LW4K), uses high-interest computer games and apps to help children strengthen attentional, executive, and thinking skills, then learn to generalize these skills to real-life situations at home and at school.
When first conceived, LW4K began with all parents first completing an executive functioning questionnaire about their children in order to identify areas of executive weakness. Parents would then receive ongoing “prescriptions” to play selected popular games and activities in an effort to apply the same executive skills that were practiced in the games.
Kulman found, however, that parents were rarely engaged in playing the games with their kids or using the suggested talking points designed to help kids understand how and where to apply executive functioning skills. As he stated at many CHADD conferences, “Games are not enough. While research suggests that video game play may result in small improvements in executive and problem solving skills, the approach at LW4K recognizes that games are best used as a teaching tool to practice executive functioning skills and that more is needed.”
A new program: LW4K Live
That is the reason for LW4K’s new program—LW4K Live—an ongoing, small-group executive function training program that uses popular video games and apps as teaching tools. The program is intended for children ages 8-15. LW4K Live instructors teach participants to identify executive function skills in game play and the real world, help them to recognize how and where to use these skills in daily life, and provide fun “homework” for kids and parents to practice these skills. According to Kulman, kids really enjoy playing the games with LW4K instructors and are engaged in learning how to use and apply executive function skills.
All classes are held in virtual classrooms or in private servers and are led by trained instructors knowledgeable in areas of attention and executive function. Instructors begin by introducing fun and popular video games like Minecraft, then apply them to day-to-day executive function, learning, and social-emotional skills. Instructors also introduce children to practical apps that can help with common attentional and executive function trouble spots, such as planning, organization, and managing time. Instructors place particular emphasis on learning ways to apply attentional and executive skills to both home and school.
Says Kulman, “We know how important it is for children with ADHD and executive function challenges to use and practice attentional and executive function strategies, along with helpful tools, at school and at home, where attentional and executive function challenges are most likely to occur, what Drs. Russ Barkley and Sam Goldstein often refer to as the point of performance.”
Recent examples of online classes include:
	Building Time Management with Minecraft
	Building Planning with Minecraft – Creative Mode
	Practicing Working Memory: Remembering Information to Solve Problems, Part 1
	Practicing Working Memory: Remembering Information to Solve Problems, Part 2
	Practicing Working Memory Skills by Creating Mnemonic Clues
	Working Memory: Using Working Memory Under Pressure
	Time Management: Building Awareness and Making Lists
	Practicing Time Management: Putting Tasks in Order
	Time Management Skills: Staying Calm Under Time Pressure
Readers may visit https://learningworksforkids.com/learningworks-live-unlimited to learn more. (Fees for individual sessions do apply.)
First highlighted in 2013, LW4K has grown substantially. Kulman’s creative vision, however, remains unchanged. New staff and colleagues include James Daley (Educational and Creative Director), Ryan Smith (Gaming Specialist and Live Instructor), Erin Churchill (Live Instructor), Kate Foster (Live Instructor), and Dallas Funk (Game Reviewer and Writer).
LW4K play diet and learning resources
Similar to a well-balanced nutritional food diet, LW4K stresses a healthy play diet. Parents are provided guidelines for establishing a healthy balance of play activities, including when and how to apply appropriate limits on computer games and activities. Parents are also provided guidelines for promoting different forms of play, including active play, creative play, and free play.
LW4K also provides updated articles of interest to both parents and teens. Ongoing articles for parents include “The Science of Play,” “Thinking Skills,” “Academic Skills,” “The Alternative Learner” and “ADHD.” Articles for teens include “Teenager’s Guide to Apps and to Improve Slow Processing Speed,” “How Teenagers Can Improve Working Memory and Processing Speed” and “Apps and Tools to Help Teens with Depression.”
Resources for educators and clinicians
The LW4K website also provides articles for teachers and clinicians that cover topics related to our current understanding of attention, learning and executive function challenges among school-age children, and our current understanding of research-based practices for improving and managing these challenges. Ongoing articles also address computer games and activities that draw upon attentional, learning, and executive skills. Educators will find many relevant resources and articles at https://learningworksforkids.com/welcome-educators.
Clinicians will find many resources at https://learningworksforkids.com/clinicians, including updates on the use of educational technologies designed to enhance the learning process and articles on generalizing attentional and executive skills to both home and school. There are also materials that address ways to help parents understand when computer time becomes excessive and ways to manage its healthy use.

Your ADD/ADHD Child and Homeschooling
by John M. Jaquith, M.Ed.
 We should let the experts educate our children. Moreover, the experts on any individual child should be directly involved in the education of that child. The most credible experts on any individual child are that child’s parents.
Learning begins the moment a child’s brain starts receiving stimulation and doesn’t end until it stops receiving stimulation. Because the majority of our children’s early learning experiences take place in their home environment, it stands to reason that their first teachers (their parents or guardians) are best suited to continue as their teachers. Therefore, the ideal educational situation, whenever possible, is that of homeschool.
Does this philosophy also apply to families with individuals who have been labeled with such problems as attention-deficit disorder (ADD) or attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)? The answer is an obvious yes! Unfortunately, there are a great number of parents who lose confidence in teaching their children at home once a label enters the situation. Labels such as ADD or ADHD carry a great deal of mystery with them, and they can be overwhelming to some parents. The good news is that parents are still the experts on their children, and teaching them at home can still be an excellent choice.
What Is ADD and ADHD?
What is ADD and ADHD? Essentially, both of these labels describe symptoms. In fact, a list of symptoms is used to identify such children. A child receives a label based on prolonged occurrences of eight or more, out of a possible fourteen, symptoms before the age of seven. These symptoms have been identified as:
	Often fidgets with hands or feet or squirms in seat.
	Has difficulty remaining in seat when required to do so.
	Is easily distracted by extraneous stimuli.
	Has difficulty waiting for a turn in games or group situations.
	Often blurts out answers to questions before they have been completed.
	Has difficulty following through on instructions from others.
	Has difficulty sustaining attention in tasks or play activity.
	Often shifts from one uncompleted activity to another.
	Has difficulty playing quietly.
	Often talks excessively.
	Often interrupts or intrudes on others.
	Often doesn’t listen to what is being said.
	Often loses things necessary for tasks or activities at school or at home.
	Often engages in physically dangerous activities without considering the possible consequences.
The label ADD refers to those children who are experiencing attention problems, but who are not hyperactive or impulsive. Such children display a variety of symptoms that can be related to inefficiencies in different areas of their development. Fortunately, developmental problems can be identified, addressed, and often eliminated.
Tactility Development
In the development of tactility, there are two common areas where problems can occur. The first one involves the ability of an individual to appropriately process sensations of light touch, pressure, and pain. The second area of tactile development involves proprioception. Proprioception refers to one’s knowledge of where one’s body is in space. If an individual has not completed developing his proprioception, his brain is not likely to know specifically where his body is. Symptoms of low development in this area include bumping into things, fidgeting or squirming around, and, to a degree, engaging in physically dangerous activities without considering the consequences.
To determine if your child has a problem with tactility, ask yourself these questions:
	Does my child exhibit the above-mentioned symptoms?
	Does she have a high threshold for pain (unaware of where she got bruises on her arms and legs after playing outside)?
	Is she inappropriately ticklish (not ticklish at all or so ticklish that she can’t stand to be touched)?
If you answered yes to any of these questions, your child may not have completed all of the developmental levels dealing with tactility. These problems can be corrected by providing specific tactile stimulation to complete all of the levels of tactile development.
Auditory and Visual Processing
Processing (both auditory and visual) is another area often found to be underdeveloped. An individual’s auditory and visual processing affects their short-term memory. If a child has low processing, it may appear that he is not listening to what is being said. The reality is that he is unable to process the information completely. Other symptoms that occur related to short-term memory/low processing include difficulty in following through on instructions from others, in remaining in one’s seat, in getting easily distracted, in waiting for one’s turn in game situations, in sustaining attention or shifting attention from task to task, in playing quietly, and in losing things necessary for task completion. Using a simple technique can identify children with low processing.
To check your child’s auditory and visual processing levels, you will need to administer a digit span test. To test for auditory levels, dictate a sequence of numbers to your child. Say them slowly (about one second apart) and in a monotone. For example say, “6 . . . 4 . . . 3 . . . 7,” then have your child repeat the numbers back to you in the same order. If she can correctly repeat four numbers in a row, try a sequence of five, then six, and so on. Take note of the sequence length she is able to complete without making a mistake.
To test your child’s visual processing, show him sequences of numbers on flashcards. Use dark solid ink on cards three inches by five inches, showing them to your child for approximately three seconds each. After three seconds, put the card down and have him repeat the numbers he saw on the card in the same order. Begin with a sequence of three or four numbers and increase the sequence size using new numbers and cards. Take note of how long of a sequence he can do correctly.
On both auditory and visual tests, a three-year-old should be able to complete sequences of three numbers; a four-year-old a sequence of four; a five-year-old, five; a six-year-old, six; a seven-year-old, seven; and adults should be able to complete a sequence of seven or more. If your child has low processing skills, you can help increase his skills by practicing the digit spans daily, thus increasing the brain’s ability to process information.
Long-term–memory problems may also be an issue with children who have received a label such as ADD or ADHD. This is related to a concept known as dominance. Almost everyone is either right- or left-handed. In order for the brain to take in information as efficiently as possible, it is helpful to consider if a child is right- or left-eared, -eyed, and -footed.
Gathering Information About Developmental Issues
How can you know which is your child’s dominant eye, ear, or foot? This process involves gathering a great deal of information. Which hand does your child write with? Does she write with this hand all of the time? Which hand does she use to perform other functions with? Which hand does your child use to eat, throw a ball, or brush her teeth? Is she doing all of these activities with the same hand? If so, which one? If your child does all or most activities with a single hand, she probably has established a dominant hand.
The foot can be as easily observed as the hand. Watch your child to see which foot she uses to kick a ball. Observe your child hopping on one foot. Which foot did she use? The foot used most often should be recorded. Also note whether the foot she uses changes consistently. Once you have gathered information about the child’s hand and foot, the eye and ear can be assessed.
We all engage in two types of visual actions, referred to as near-point and far-point activities. When visual activities occur close to us (reading or writing), they are called near-point activities. When visual activities occur at a distance (watching TV or riding in a car), they are called far-point activities. There are several different ways to assess which eye your child is using to take in information for both types of activities.
To analyze visual near-point activities, you will need two note cards. Place a dot (about three-eighths of an inch in diameter) in the center of one note card. On the other card, punch a hole (about the same size as the dot) in the center. Place the card with the hole on top of the card with the dot, and line them up together. Place the cards on a flat surface, and sit your child directly in front of the cards. Instruct your child to lift only the card with the hole up to their face while watching the dot the entire time. Observe which eye he brings the card up to. Try this at several different times, and record the information.
To assess far-point activities, have your child stand across the room from yourself. Point at your child using your index finger, with your arm extended. Instruct your child to point back at you in the same way, so that it looks like his finger is touching yours. Observe which eye the child is using to line up his finger with. Have the child switch hands and repeat the exercise. Which eye is the child using to line up his finger with? Does your child switch between eyes? Record this information along with your previously gathered information on the child’s hand, foot, and near-point visual activities.
Analyzing the Information
Gathering information about your child’s auditory dominance is also a matter of observation. Have your child stand directly in front of a door in your home. Next, have someone on the other side of the door say something softly “through” the door. Encourage your child to “lean in and listen carefully” to what is being said. Observe which ear the child is using to listen at the door. Try this a number of times and record what you see.
Right-Side and Left-Side Dominance
Once you have gathered this information, examine it. Notice which side of the body is used for each activity. Does your child use the left hand, left eye (for near- and far-point), left ear, and left foot? Or does your child use everything on her right side? Is there a mixture (for example, right hand and foot, but left ear and mixed visually)? To use our brains efficiently, we must have an established dominant side. If there is a mixture of some kind, then the brain does not receive, process, store, and utilize information in the most efficient way possible.
Impulsivity
Impulsive behavior is another symptom commonly seen in children with the ADD or ADHD label. Traditionally, it has been treated with drugs. Two commonly prescribed drugs are Ritalin and Dexedrine. These drugs are used to affect the chemical makeup of the brain (more specifically, they raise dopamine levels). The objective is to reduce the impulsivity of the children. An alternative to medication is to take a look at what is causing the impulsivity and then eliminate it. Many times food sensitivities are found to be an issue.
Food Sensitivities
Food sensitivities are generally not as obvious as allergies, so they are often referred to as hidden problems. Symptoms of food sensitivities can include, but are not limited to, congestion of the nose and throat (which can be accompanied by headaches and postnasal drip), impulsivity, distractibility, hyperactivity, and a short attention span. Trying an elimination diet might be an avenue for families who suspect food sensitivities in their children. Speaking to someone familiar with food sensitivities is a good place to start. There are some other sources listed at the end of this article that may help.
Addressing the Problem
Addressing problem behavior is often another major area of concern for children who have been given labels such as ADD or ADHD. Establishing a positive environment, implementing a solid daily structure, and providing appropriate feedback are all very important components of a successful behavior plan. Depending on the child, it is sometimes necessary to eliminate certain negative behaviors before it is possible to establish a positive environment.
Consistency
The key to eliminating behaviors is to establish a consistent plan of action. A consequence to the behavior you are trying to eliminate should be thoughtfully chosen and consistently administered. The consequence should be one that a parent feels will work best for their particular child. Prolonged timeout is one method that has worked well when implemented consistently. Negative-token–economy systems (where a token is lost every time the behavior occurs) have also worked well. In this system, once all of the tokens are gone, the child’s day is over. Another alternative is to positively reinforce a behavior that is opposite and incompatible to the one you are trying to eliminate. For example, a child cannot be doing his chores and be on the floor throwing a temper tantrum at the same time.
Positivity
Once the negative behaviors have been eliminated, a positive environment needs to be established. A positive environment is one in which four positive statements are given for every one negative. It is interesting for parents to test this out on themselves. For a period of time every day, keep track on a piece of paper how many negative statements you make compared to how many positive statements. Most of us fall short of the optimum positive environment, but you can use this test as a starting point. Continue improving your positive-to-negative ratio until you have succeeded in creating a positive environment (four positive comments for every negative) in your home.
Daily Structure
Implementing a daily structure is also important for any expert homeschooling their child. First, establish a routine that you will follow each day or week. Next, go over this schedule with your child so he can expect what the day will hold for him. Your child can be involved in the process of developing the schedule, provided that the overall control of a child’s schedule stays firmly with the parent.
Conclusion
While the identification of labels such as ADD or ADHD is accomplished by looking at a list of symptoms, these symptoms do not constitute the actual problem. It is essential to look at the underlying cause of these symptoms. Once the root causes are identified, they can be addressed and, hopefully, eliminated through specific stimulation. The National Association for Child Development (NACD) is an international organization that assesses the underlying causes to these symptoms. Browse the Web site to learn more about how they empower parents with the knowledge, techniques, and expertise that enables them to assume primary responsibility for their children’s maximum growth and development.
About NACD’s Homeschool & Home Education Programs
The National Association for Child Development (NACD) has conducted over fifty thousand individual evaluations and designed over fifty thousand homeschool programs over the past sixteen years. NACD provides families with individualized programs for children with labels like ADD, ADHD, learning disabled, autistic, mentally disabled, brain injured, Down syndrome, and gifted, serving families who are committed to serving their children in the ways the parents feel are best. To read more about our home education programs, click here.

Homeschooling Help for a Child with ADHD
Homeschooling ADHD children comes with unique challenges that require patience, structure, and flexibility. Our homeschool interventions for ADHD have two main aims:
	Remediate ADHD at its source using neuroscience-based exercises
	Accelerate reading and learning
The Challenges of Homeschooling a Child With ADHD
Despite all the will in the world, even with the best homeschool curriculum, if your child is struggling to engage, progress will be slow. Your ADHD child:
	Will find it difficult to stay on task for extended periods.
	Does not engage with traditional teaching or materials.
	Is easily distracted by toys, pets, and siblings – which makes learning difficult.
	May have difficulty managing frustration and handling setbacks
All of this makes learning difficult. Teaching a child with ADHD at home can strain the parent-child relationship. Power struggles and resistance to authority can make homeschooling ADHD children stressful.
Furthermore, ADHD can cause inconsistent academic performance, making progress tracking frustrating. The unevenness makes it hard to know how well your child is progressing using the standardized tests schools provide.
The result can be parental burnout. Homeschooling an ADHD child requires immense patience and effort. You may be exhausted by the constant need to redirect and provide emotional support.
Dealing with ADHD – Cope and Treat
Of course, there is no single answer here. There are strategies to help you cope with your child’s ADHD.  Coping strategies include:
	Create a structured yet flexible schedule with visual aids and timers.
	Use multi-sensory and movement-based learning techniques.
	Provide frequent breaks to manage energy levels.
	Celebrate small wins to maintain motivation.
However, there is also a significant benefit in treating ADHD, going after the processing delays that cause inattentiveness to free your child (and you) from the frustrations that ADHD causes. This is what our ADHD homeschool intervention does.
If your child is a candidate for our program, there’s a very good chance that ADHD symptoms can be significantly reduced and that you will find homeschooling a far more rewarding experience.
Our ADHD Program
Our Homeschool Curriculum for ADHD
To make homeschooling a positive experience for you and your child, first and foremost, you need to deal with ADHD. Not only does it get in the way of your teaching, but it can also affect social skills, making peer interactions more challenging.
Our programs are a perfect fit for homeschool families because they work on two tracks:
	Reduce ADHD symptoms
	Accelerate reading and math held back by ADHD
Homeschool Curriculum Programs
Our curriculum is built around:
	Fast ForWord software – targets ADHD, improves learning efficiency
	Fast ForWord reading series  – phonics to reading comprehension
	ClearFluency and Reading Plus – training reading speed
	DreamBox Math and Reflex Math – math facts, K-8 math curriculum
The Gemm Learning approach is to provide these research-backed programs at home with constant remote oversight. We monitor daily, check in regularly, send weekly reports, and intervene as needed.
Our professionals will create an individualized program plan to meet your child’s unique needs.
Most of our students work after-school hours on our programs, which limits the time available to work on the breadth of our curriculum. This means it’s harder to work on more than one track at a time. Homeschooling provides the opportunity to work on multiple tracks, targeting ADHD, reading, and math.
To read more details about the science and logistics of our homeschool program, see more on our ADHD intervention programs here.
Expected Outcomes
Every case is unique, and so outcomes vary. Expected outcomes from our homeschool curriculum for ADHD include:
	Less stress over learning – if your child can engage, learning is easier, and for you, teaching is easier
	Better reading fluency and comprehension
	Learning math facts
	More confidence – willing to take on new things, brush off setbacks, a lean-in approach to learning
To find out if our programs are a fit for your family and to have your questions answered, call 877.914.4366.
How Our Service Works
Gemm Learning has a “virtual learning center” approach.
No Parent Training or Tech Skills Required
Our homeschool curriculum for ADHD is online. As a parent, your role is to create a schedule for your child and encourage them to participate. Gemm Learning does the rest. We manage the daily assignments remotely. Your child just logs in and starts.
Students Work At Their Own Pace
Fast ForWord aims to engage children with ADHD by incorporating a computer-game feel and adapting to their progress. It advances with correct answers and retreats with three consecutive wrong answers.
Homeschooling ADHD children often involves a lot of parents hovering, especially if she is working on software. The adaptivity causes less frustration, so it should require less hovering.
We also offer extensive backend reporting. When engagement is low, you will see it in the reports, just as Gemm Learning will.
Comprehensive Support
Weekly progress reports, a client help site called My Gemm, and the constant support of a dedicated Gemm professional. A virtual center in your home. More on our service and support here

Neurodivergent-Focused Game Accessibility: A Systematic Literature Review
by 
Carla Sousa
 1,* ,
Pedro P. Neves
 2 ,
Pedro M. Fernandes
 2 ,
João Freire
 2 ,
Pedro Gouveia
 2 ,
Mariana Rodrigues
 3 ,
Tiago dos Santos
 3 ,
Cátia Casimiro
 1  and
Filipe Luz
 2,* 
1
Centre for Research in Applied Communication, Culture, and New Technologies (CICANT), Lusófona University, 1749-024 Lisbon, Portugal
2
Digital Human-Environment Interaction Lab (HEI-Lab), Lusófona University, 1749-024 Lisbon, Portugal
3
School of Psychology and Life Sciences (EPCV), Lusófona University, 1749-024 Lisbon, Portugal
*
Authors to whom correspondence should be addressed.
Disabilities 2026, 6(1), 18; https://doi.org/10.3390/disabilities6010018
Submission received: 29 November 2025 / Revised: 9 January 2026 / Accepted: 30 January 2026 / Published: 12 February 2026
Downloadkeyboard_arrow_down 
Browse Figure
 
Versions Notes
Abstract
Accessible digital games represent an emerging frontier for inclusion, offering both challenges and opportunities to advance the cultural participation of neurodivergent people. This study presents a systematic literature review of empirical research on game accessibility for neurodivergent players, including autistic individuals and persons with intellectual disabilities. Forty-eight studies published between 2014 and 2025 were analysed to examine how accessibility is defined, implemented, and evaluated in game design. The results reveal that accessibility is often framed as a functional or therapeutic adjustment rather than as a social or cultural right. Although growing attention has been paid to sensory and cognitive barriers, few studies adopt neurodiversity-affirming or participatory frameworks. Most remain confined to educational or rehabilitation contexts, with limited involvement of neurodivergent co-designers. The findings call for a redefinition of accessibility as a creative, ethical, and political principle central to inclusive digital culture and the neurodiversity movement.
Keywords: 
neurodiversity; digital games; accessibility; inclusion; game design; participatory design
1. Introduction
Games matter for neurodivergent populations. Calls for neurodivergent accessibility in games have been happening for around a decade, with some early strides in the games’ industry adoption. The calls proposed the task of resolving neurodivergent accessibility in games as an interdisciplinary practice anchored in human–computer Interaction (HCI), inclusion and critical disability studies. This task remains unfulfilled.
Serious games for neurodivergent people have not completely shed medical and psychological models of disability. Implementations remain focused on surface-level interactions rather than placing neurodivergent inclusion at the heart of game design processes. The field continues to give the impression of a succession of somewhat redundant guideline proposals, failing to present a consolidated program for inclusive research and practice. A contribution towards the needed consolidation lies with a systematic literature review of empirical studies of neurodivergent accessibility, including game proposals and implementations, to gauge the state of use of definitions of accessibility, inclusive design, domain-specific guidelines and standards.
Gaming and Neurodiversity
The concept of neurodiversity emerged in the late twentieth century as both a scientific and socio-political response to deficit-based understandings of neurological difference. It challenges traditional medical models that frame autism, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), dyslexia, Tourette syndrome, and related conditions as disorders to be cured or normalised. Instead, neurodiversity recognises such variations as natural forms of human cognitive diversity, comparable to biodiversity in ecological systems [1,2]. Within this framework, neurological differences are seen as intrinsic to human variation and as potential sources of creativity, problem-solving, and alternative modes of perception rather than as deviations from an assumed norm.
From its inception, the neurodiversity movement carried a distinctly activist orientation. Originating in online autistic self-advocacy networks, it called for self-determination, social recognition, and an end to paternalistic approaches that excluded neurodivergent people from decisions affecting their lives [1]. This activism aligned with the social model of disability, which locates barriers not within individuals but within environments that fail to accommodate human diversity. The political dimension of neurodiversity thus redefines accessibility as a matter of rights and justice, rather than as a technical add-on to existing systems. Advocates have linked the movement to broader struggles for inclusion and participation in cultural, educational, and technological spheres [3,4].
Within this political and ethical context, accessible gaming becomes more than a question of interface design. It represents a cultural frontier where neurodivergent people seek equitable participation, creative authorship, and visibility. Games serve as both expressive media and social arenas in which norms about cognition, emotion, and communication are enacted. For many neurodivergent players, the right to play and design games parallels the right to access cultural production and representation. The call for accessible gaming therefore intersects with the neurodiversity movement’s demand for inclusive culture, advocating for the dismantling of cognitive barriers that restrict participation in digital leisure and creative economies [5].
Neurodivergent activism has also expanded the meaning of accessibility beyond the accommodation of sensory sensitivities or attention differences. It includes the recognition of alternative play styles, atypical communication preferences, and distinct sensory-emotional experiences of interaction [6]. These insights encourage a reconceptualisation of accessibility as a collaborative and interpretive process, grounded in the lived expertise of neurodivergent communities. Such a perspective transforms accessible design from an act of correction to an act of cultural co-creation [7], positioning neurodivergent players and designers as essential contributors to the evolution of game cultures [6,8].
Heron [9] explains how inaccessibility and exclusion of people with disabilities in digital games (in which we can include neurodivergent players) constitute theft of social integration, cultural capital, speech, and representation leading to real, persistent disempowerment, to the extent that “accessible interfaces are not a niche consideration” and “accessible design is not a luxury” [9]. Access and inclusion in digital games therefore fall under the mandated outcomes of Article 9 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities (UNCRPD) [10], namely “access, on an equal basis with others” to “information and communications technologies and systems” and promoting this access early in the design and development process as opposed to an afterthought, as well as full “participation in the community” per Article 19 of the UNCRPD [10].
Themes in barriers for neurodivergent players of digital games include a range of physical barriers, cognitive barriers related to executive dysfunction, to memory problems, to compulsive behaviour, and to expectation mismatch, as well as psychological and emotional barriers related to anxiety and depression and to executive dysfunction. Themes in barriers reported by these players pertaining to game design and features relate to time-pressure, adjustments for controls, difficulty, visuals and audio, as well as the need to focus [11]. However, HCI “research efforts focusing on games for neurodivergent players in particular remain under-explored”, with accessibility in games showing a “strong focus on physical disability” but a lack of design implementation for neurodivergence [6]. The situation has been slow to improve, has only improved to a limited degree, and still led by concerns with controls and interface, both in guidelines and in implementation [12].
In summary, this review Systematic Literature Review (SLR) intends to address the persistent gap between growing calls for neurodivergent accessibility in games and the fragmented ways in which accessibility is currently defined, implemented, and evaluated in empirical research. Through the systematic mapping and analysis of how accessibility is conceptualised, operationalised, and tested across studies, it aims to clarify the current state of the field, identify recurring limitations, and outline directions for more coherent, participatory, and neurodiversity-affirming approaches to game design. In this sense, it explored the main Research Question (RQ1): “How has accessible game design been studied and implemented to support neurodivergent players?”. Therefore, to better explore this main question, it will comprise a set of more specific questions, namely:
	RQ2—What are the most common accessibility barriers faced by neurodivergent players in digital games?
	RQ3—Which game design features and adaptations are most frequently proposed or implemented to enhance accessibility for neurodivergent groups?
	RQ4—How do different game genres address the needs of neurodivergent players?
	RQ5—To what extent are neurodivergent players involved in the game design process?
	RQ6—What gaps exist in current research on accessible game design for these populations, and what future directions are suggested?
2. Notes on Language and Conceptual Framing
Before presenting this study and its findings and recognising the connections between language, action, power, identity and culture, we find it important to clarify the language used throughout this paper, as there has been an ongoing debate about the use of identity-first versus person-first language in research [13,14].
Although part of the eligibility criteria was that participants were either self-identified or were formally diagnosed, we adopted a non-diagnostic-based language in an effort to distance ourselves from the medical model of disability and move closer to the social model.
In line with this, when referring to people with intellectual disabilities, we will use a person-first language, as previous research [15] has informed us that this is the preference of these individuals. On the contrary, the Autistic community has a preference for identity-first language [16]; so, when referring specifically to this group, an identity-first language will be adopted. Even though they have different views on language, when referring to these two groups, we will adopt the term ‘neurodivergent(s)’, as it encompasses individuals who have cognitive functions that differ from the dominant societal view of ‘normal’ [2], including, but not restricted to people with intellectual disabilities, autistic, dyslexic, ADHD and epileptic individuals.
However, we also recognise that language is associated with identity [17] and that identity is something specific to each person. Although this may be the language adopted by the majority, we also acknowledge that it does not mean it is adopted by all. It is also important to mention that a specific disability language and positionality statement is also described in the final part of this article.
Although this review adopts the term ‘neurodivergent’ to reflect a broad and inclusive conceptual framing, the empirical scope of this review is intentionally narrower. In line with the inclusion criteria, the studies reviewed predominantly focus on autistic individuals and people with intellectual disabilities, as these groups represent the most consistently addressed populations in the game accessibility literature. The use of an umbrella term is therefore conceptual rather than exhaustive, and findings should not be assumed to generalise to all neurodivergent conditions. This boundary is maintained to ensure analytical coherence while acknowledging the broader diversity encompassed by neurodivergence, through the previously mentioned activist-driven orientation [1].
3. Methods
The present study, as previously mentioned, adopted an SLR research design as a strategy to broadly map the evidence in the field in which it is both dense and dispersed. For such purpose, PRISMA guidelines [18] were adopted, and can be followed through in the developed checklist (see https://www.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.31007179, accessed on 6 January 2026).
3.1. Eligibility Criteria
Studies were eligible for inclusion if they explicitly involved autistic individuals and/or people with intellectual disabilities, either through formal diagnoses or self-identification as neurodivergent. Eligible studies had to address digital games designed for or studied with these populations and be reported as peer-reviewed empirical research (quantitative, qualitative, or mixed-methods). Case studies of game development processes were also included if they incorporated neurodivergent participants. To ensure relevance to contemporary accessibility debates, only publications from 2007 onwards, following the adoption of the UNCRPD [10], and written in English were considered.
Exclusion criteria encompassed studies that focused exclusively on neurotypical participants or on disabilities unrelated to the scope of this review (like physical, visual, or hearing impairments). Also excluded were studies centred solely on non-digital games (such as board or physical games), and papers addressing only general “game-based learning” without specific adaptations or considerations for neurodivergent players.
3.2. Information Sources
The literature search was conducted across five electronic databases and research platforms. The following sources were consulted: ACM Digital Library (last searched 8 April 2025), Google Scholar (9 April 2025), B-On (Biblioteca do Conhecimento Online; 9 April 2025), ProQuest (9 April 2025), and ResearchGate (9 April 2025).
For Google Scholar and ResearchGate, searches were conducted through a free mapping strategy, initially by using the keyword “Games Accessibility.” Results were then manually filtered to include only those related to neurodivergence and associated conditions (like autism, ADHD, dyslexia, or intellectual disability). This exploratory approach was chosen to complement the more structured searches run in subscription databases and to ensure that emerging or interdisciplinary works, which are often less systematically indexed, were not overlooked.
The inclusion of B-On (https://www.b-on.pt/en/, accessed on 9 April 2025) was particularly relevant. B-On is the Portuguese national consortium that provides unified access to a wide range of international publishers’ collections, including journals, conference proceedings, and e-books across disciplines. Through B-On, institutions in Portugal gain access to most of the major publishers (e.g., Elsevier, Springer, IEEE, Wiley), making it a crucial entry point to international peer-reviewed literature.
3.3. Search Strategy
The search strategy was designed to capture peer-reviewed studies addressing digital game accessibility in relation to neurodivergent populations. Boolean strings combined terms for accessibility, neurodivergence, and game development/design, with minor adaptations across databases to account for indexing rules (e.g., truncation). A publication date filter (from 2007 onwards) was applied to align this review with the adoption of the UNCRPD (UN, 2006) and subsequent developments in accessibility practices. Only English-language publications were considered. A more general search strategy was used in the databases in which truncation was not supported (Table 1) and an adapted one for the remaining databases (Table 2).
Table 1. General Boolean search string used in the systematic review (non-truncated version).
 
Table 2. General Boolean search string used in the systematic review (truncated version).
 
Search strings were adapted to the specific syntax and functionalities of each database. While the conceptual blocks (e.g., game-related terms, accessibility, neurodivergence) were kept consistent across sources to ensure conceptual coherence, field tags, operators, and limits were adjusted according to database requirements. Table 1 presents the core Boolean logic adopted. Conversely, Table 2 presents the truncated version of that same query, implemented in databases that technically allow it. Some more database-specific implementations followed the technical constraints of each platform.
For Google Scholar, searches were conducted using simplified keyword combinations derived from the main Boolean blocks due to platform constraints. The results were sorted by relevance, and screening was conducted sequentially until thematic saturation was reached, defined as the point at which no new eligible studies were identified across consecutive result pages. In line with common systematic review practices, the first 300 results were screened.
ResearchGate was used exclusively as a supplementary discovery tool. Items retrieved via ResearchGate were only included if they could be independently verified as peer-reviewed publications, based on confirmation of publication in indexed journals or conference proceedings through the publisher’s website or bibliographic databases (SCImago Journal & Country Rank, https://www.scimagojr.com, accessed on 9 April 2025) was used as a source for confirming the peer-reviewed status whenever possible.). Preprints, unpublished manuscripts, and non–peer-reviewed materials were excluded.
3.4. Selection and Data Collection Process
Screening at the title and abstract level was conducted by one senior researcher, with all decisions discussed and validated in consultation with another scholar to ensure consistency. The eligibility assessment of full-text reports was then performed by two junior researchers, who discussed all unclear cases and “maybes” with a senior scholar. Final inclusion decisions were reached through iterative discussion to ensure consistency.
3.5. Data Items and Synthesis
Data were extracted into a structured Excel sheet created for this review. Extraction was conducted by four junior researchers and supervised by two senior scholars with whom all entries were subsequently discussed and validated to ensure consistency. No automation tools were used at any stage. For each included study, information was collected on bibliographic details, study characteristics, participant profiles, study aims, game-related features, accessibility measures, and the role of neurodivergent participants in the research process. Outcomes of interest were those relating to the operationalisation of accessibility in digital game design and use, with particular attention to cognitive and psychological dimensions. All results compatible with these domains were considered, and no restrictions were applied to measures, time points, or analyses.
Depending on the nature of the data, the results were synthesised either through descriptive statistics, calculated using JASP (v0.19.3), or through critical content analysis [19], ensuring both quantitative and qualitative dimensions of the evidence base were adequately captured.
3.6. Study Risk of Bias Assessment
To assess the risk of bias across the included studies, we adopted a tiered classification framework adapted from [20], which provides guidance for synthesising qualitative and quantitative health evidence. This approach allowed us to move beyond binary notions of study quality and instead capture nuances of methodological robustness and relevance to neurodivergent accessibility in digital game development. Each study was independently assessed and classified into one of three tiers:
	Tier 1—Low relevance/weak methods: These studies were characterised by limited methodological transparency, theoretical or conceptual approaches without empirical grounding, or marginal relevance to neurodivergent accessibility in digital game design.
	Tier 2—Moderate methods/some relevance: These contributions displayed adequate but not rigorous methods, with partial attention to accessibility for neurodivergent populations. While informative, their findings were considered limited in terms of transferability or depth of evidence.
	Tier 3—Strong methods/clear accessibility framing: These studies demonstrated robust methodological approaches (qualitative, quantitative, or mixed), provided empirical data or detailed design evaluations, and framed accessibility explicitly in relation to neurodivergent populations.
For studies where reporting was ambiguous or incomplete, classification decisions were made conservatively, based on available information. Where methodological rigour could not be confidently determined, this study was assigned to the lower tier. This approach ensured transparency and consistency in assessing potential bias while acknowledging the heterogeneity of the research approaches represented in this review.
4. Results
4.1. Study Selection
The systematic search across five databases yielded a total of 2695 records (ACM Digital Library = 365; Google Scholar = 260; B-On = 1785; ProQuest = 278; ResearchGate = 7). After the removal of 1119 duplicates, 1576 records were screened at the title and abstract level. Of these, 1490 records were excluded for not meeting the inclusion criteria.
A total of 86 full-text reports were retrieved and assessed for eligibility. Following full-text screening, 38 reports were excluded for the following reasons: duplicates (n = 9), not empirical studies (n = 9), involving out-of-scope populations (n = 7), not focused on digital games (n = 6), not addressing game accessibility or design (n = 6), and language restriction (Portuguese only; n = 1).
The final sample comprised 48 studies, which were included in this review. The study selection process is summarised in this study’s flow diagram (Figure 1).
 
Figure 1. PRISMA flow diagram (visually adapted from Page et al. [18] for clarity purposes) of the study selection process, showing the number of records identified, screened, assessed for eligibility, and included in the final review (N = 48).
Some reports initially appeared to meet the inclusion criteria but were excluded upon closer inspection. For instance, certain studies discussed accessibility but focused exclusively on non-digital games, and were therefore removed at the eligibility stage. Others addressed neurodiversity more broadly but without linking it to digital game design or accessibility, and thus did not align with the scope of this review.
4.2. Study Characteristics
The sample of 48 studies included a total of 2399 participants, with an average sample size of 54.5 per study (SD= 104.1). The study with the larger sample included 623 individuals [21] and the smaller sample was studied by Sancho et al. [22], with a total of three participants. The different sample sizes, alongside other studies’ characteristics, are summarised in Table 3.
Table 3. Overview of studies’ characteristics (N = 48).
 
As expressed in Table 3, the studies in the sample were published between 2014 and 2025, and conducted across a broad range of geographical contexts. The largest number of studies originated from Portugal (n = 6; 12.5%), followed by Brazil (n = 5; 10.4%), South Korea (n = 4; 8.3%), and the United States (n = 4; 8.3%). It is also relevant to highlight the presence of six studies simultaneously conducted in several countries. Individual studies were also conducted in Belgium, Canada, China, Croatia, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Mexico, Pakistan, Qatar, Spain, Taiwan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. (2.1% each)
In terms of type of contribution, the majority were empirical studies (n = 38; 79.2%), complemented by design case studies (n = 7; 14.6%) and a smaller number of conceptual papers (n = 1; 2.1%). Methodologically, the studies were diverse: quantitative approaches (n = 16; 33.3%) and qualitative approaches (n = 15; 31.3%) were frequent, with mixed methods (n = 13; 27.1%) also well represented. Three studies (6.3%) were categorised as design case studies adopting primarily qualitative strategies, and one as conceptual work.
The sample sizes varied considerably, ranging from 3 to 623 participants, with some design studies reporting no direct participant numbers. Conditions addressed included autism (n = 17; 35.4%), Intellectual Disability (n = 15; 31.3%), ADHD (n = 9; 18.8%), dyslexia (n = 7; 14.6%), and multiple conditions (n = 7; 14.6%). Some studies involved smaller or non-specified groups (like the study by Žilak et al. [68]).
Publication years were unevenly distributed. The earliest study was published in 2014, with a steady growth thereafter. Peaks were observed in 2022 (n = 9; 18.8%), 2023 (n = 7; 14.6%), and 2024 (n = 9; 18.8%), reflecting increasing scholarly attention to accessibility for neurodivergent populations in game design. The most recent works included those from 2025 (n = 3; 6.3%).
Aims of the Studies
The aims of the studies included in this review were diverse but can be grouped into several broad orientations, as shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Studies in the sample grouped by the strand/category of their specific aim (N = 48).
 
The aims of the 48 included studies clustered into six main strands (see Table 4). A first strand comprised works on co-design and participatory inquiry (n = 5; 10.4%), which sought to involve neurodivergent participants directly in the design process, for example by eliciting perspectives of teenagers with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder [35] or engaging children with intellectual disabilities, autism, and aphasia in participatory co-creation [28,34,36,47].
The largest group of studies focused on the development and piloting of game-based interventions or training programmes (n = 22; 45.8%). These ranged from mathematics learning games for ADHD [25] and VR-based cognitive training for young adults with intellectual disabilities [61] to serious games supporting emotion recognition in autism [24] and daily routine memorisation for Down syndrome [31].
A third strand encompassed the use of games as tools for assessment and screening (n = 10; 20.8%). These included language-independent web-based games to predict or screen for dyslexia [48,49,51], mobile tools for assessing executive functioning in autism [42], and game-based performance tasks to measure representational flexibility in autistic adolescents [45].
Another group of studies addressed the elaboration of guidelines, methods, and frameworks for accessibility (n = 7; 14.6%). Examples include the creation of evidence-based design guidelines for adults with intellectual disabilities [60], participatory action research for accessible gaming [58,59], and methods for developing accessible serious games for dyslexia and autism [37,38].
Three studies focused on inclusive play and sensory design (n = 3; 6.3%), such as investigations of AR tabletop play with children with autism [66] and VR games designed for neurodiverse children to address sensory diversity [64].
Finally, one study (2.1%) emphasised the role of sociocultural and institutional context in shaping game engagement, highlighting how local factors influenced children with autism in Pakistan [46].
4.3. Risk of Bias in Studies
The assessment of methodological quality and potential risk of bias conducted using the tiered framework adapted from [20], revealed notable variation across the included studies. Of the 48 studies, 13 (27.1%) were classified as Tier 1, indicating weak methodological rigour, limited empirical grounding, or marginal relevance to neurodivergent accessibility in digital game development. Twenty-three studies (47.9%) were classified as Tier 2, reflecting moderate methodological robustness and partial consideration of accessibility concerns. Finally, 12 studies (25.0%) achieved Tier 3 status, demonstrating strong methodological quality, empirical grounding, and clear framing of accessibility in relation to neurodivergent populations.
Overall, nearly half of the sample was situated in Tier 2, suggesting that although accessibility for neurodivergent players has gained some methodological attention, it often remains inconsistently operationalised. The relatively small proportion of Tier 3 studies highlights the need for more rigorous and explicitly accessibility-oriented research within this domain. Conversely, the considerable presence of Tier 1 studies highlights the persistence of conceptual or theoretical contributions that, while valuable in scope, provide limited empirical evidence to inform practice or policy.
4.4. Results of Syntheses
4.4.1. Views on Accessibility in the Sample of Studies
Most studies did not adopt a particular or clear definition of accessibility (n = 44; 91.67%), meaning that this concept was not specifically defined in terms of the developed research. The remaining four studies (8.33%) clearly stated the adopted definition of accessibility in the scope of the study, as presented in Table 5.
Table 5. Definitions of accessibility adopted in the sample of studies (n = 4).
 
The four studies that did define accessibility adopted diverse perspectives, as presented in Table 5. One framed accessibility as a functional characteristic of systems or environments that enables use regardless of disability or condition [37]. Others emphasised a social or contextual approach, viewing barriers as constructed by societal constraints and mitigated through personalised technological support [30]. A further set of two studies drew on inclusive design principles, highlighting accessibility as the design of products and environments that are usable by the widest range of people, including those with disabilities [59,60]. Finally, one study conceptualised accessibility in terms of measurable suitability, stressing its role in ensuring inclusivity across populations, including people with disabilities and older adults [68].
Most specifically regarding the definition of cognitive accessibility, only two studies [59,60] clearly defined the concept, both based on previous work from [70]. According to this vision, it “aims to make information and communication more understandable, intuitive, easy to process, and interactive for neurodiverse people”.
Conversely, a larger number of studies (n = 23; 47.9%) adopted any guidelines, frameworks, or theories to support the enhancement in cognitive accessibility in the proposed game or game-based intervention.
Some works adopted participatory or values-oriented approaches, such as accessibility and theme-driven guidelines co-created with young people with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder [35] the Socially Aware Design and VCIA model [25], exergame design principles from Hernandez et al. [71] as applied by Castelhano and Roque [28], and design frameworks for involving neurodiverse children [47,72,73,74]. Participatory design work for people with aphasia was also referenced, namely Moffatt et al. [75], applied by Hymes et al. [36].
Several studies drew on general accessibility and ergonomic standards, including ISO 9241-210 on human-system interaction [50], and the W3C note Making Content Usable for People with Cognitive and Learning Disabilities [26]. Broader tools such as Includification [76], Google Material Design Guidelines, or Apple’s Human Interface Guidelines were also applied [22,31].
A third group of studies reported educational and cognitive learning theories, including Mayer’s Cognitive Theory of Multimedia Learning and Skinner’s operant conditioning model [32], and Keller’s ARCS model of instructional design [29]. In health-sport contexts, frameworks for personalised and adaptive training [77] were integrated [52].
Finally, some works relied on condition-specific guidelines, such as autism software design principles [57], ADHD guidelines from Vonthron et al. [21] and Powell et al. [78], the human-centred design adaptations for autism [23,79,80], and recommendations for Down syndrome [22,31]. Additional examples included MagicBLOCKS guidelines [66], multisensory VR design for cognitive training [61], and assessment frameworks for mobile serious games [37,38].
In sum, while nearly half of the studies incorporated formal or informal frameworks, their application was fragmented and context-specific, with no single dominant reference point across the literature. This reflects both innovation and the lack of consensus on standard practices for operationalising cognitive accessibility in game development.
4.4.2. Accessibility for Neurodivergent Players
To better contextualise the sample of studies regarding the way games were framed, it is relevant to highlight that most of them adopted games for “serious purposes” (n = 32; 66.7%), meaning that they are used as tools to promote learning, skill acquisition well-being, or any other outcome that is external to the gameplay. Eight studies (16.7%) combined both a serious and an entertainment gaming driven approach, while five studies (10.4%) were focused on entertainment only. Moreover, three studies (6.3%) were unclear or did not specify the framing or type of use of the games adopted.
Regarding the addressed game genres (meaning the genre of the games developed or adapted for accessibility purposes on the scope of each study) puzzles were the most frequent (n = 17; 35.4%). The second most common situation was the creation or adaptation of multiple game genres in the same study (n = 14; 29.2%). Simulation and action games were adopted in four studies each (8.3%), while one study (2.1%) was centred around a Role Playing Game (RPG). There were also eight studies (16.7%) that lacked enough details in their report that allow for a coherent categorisation of the game genre(s).
As a strategy to understand the intersection between these two axes the analysis represented in Table 6 was developed.
Table 6. Distribution of game genre(s) addressed by games’ framing (N = 48), with percentages calculated for the total of each game framing category.
 
The distribution of game genres varied substantially according to the framing of the games (Table 6). Studies that framed games for serious purposes dominated the sample (n = 32; 66.7%) and most frequently employed puzzle games (43.8%), followed by multiple genres (21.9%) and action/adventure titles (12.5%). Simulation and role-playing games appeared less frequently in this group (6.3% and 3.1%, respectively). By contrast, studies with an entertainment-only framing (n = 5; 10.4%) showed no reliance on puzzle games, but instead concentrated on multiple genres (60%) and non-specified/other genres (40%).
Across the 48 studies, mechanics designed or adapted for cognitive accessibility revealed several recurring design strategies, categorised in Table 7. A strong emphasis was placed on memory, attention, and concentration, often operationalised through puzzle games, rhythm-based challenges, or inhibitory control tasks. These mechanics reflect attempts to scaffold core cognitive processes frequently identified as support needs among neurodivergent players.
Table 7. Distribution of game mechanics by analytical category (N = 48).
 
Equally prominent were adaptive and personalised systems, ensuring that difficulty, presentation, and interaction could be adjusted to player abilities. This included real-time adaptation to performance, adjustable sensory parameters (colour, contrast, speed), and simplified tutorials, which reduce cognitive load and improve usability.
Many studies integrated multimodal and sensory interaction, highlighting the importance of flexibility in input and feedback modalities. Mechanisms such as eye-blink selection, gesture-based control, or multisensory VR/AR environments broadened accessibility for diverse users, particularly those with motor or perceptual challenges.
Narrative framing and representation were also central. Games frequently used relatable or inclusive storylines (like representing ADHD experiences, embedding familiar children’s stories, or centring on emotions), which functioned as motivational anchors and helped sustain engagement.
Motivational structures and feedback mechanisms ensured that players received continuous reinforcement, with immediate responses to actions, achievements, or adaptive guidance reducing frustration and maintaining flow. Finally, several works embedded collaborative and therapeutic dimensions. Cooperative play mechanics promoted social communication, while others drew on behavioural reinforcement or therapeutic frameworks for stress regulation and self-control.
4.4.3. Implementing and Testing Accessibility
Regarding the process of implementing accessibility, the predominant accessibility features that were implemented, adapted, or analysed in the sample of studies were related to customisation options (e.g., font, difficulty, pacing), which happened in 17 studies (35.4%). Conversely, the least type of implemented or analysed accessibility measures were related to navigation aids and UI simplifications (n = 6; 12.5%). The full analysis of accessibility measures is presented in Table 8.
Table 8. Predominant accessibility features adapted, implemented, or analysed in the sample of studies (N = 48).
 
As expressed (Table 8), seven studies (14.6%) presented accessibility features classified as “other”. From this subsample, it is possible to highlight the predominance of studies in which accessibility was promoted through hardware-based solutions, meaning that the interaction barriers were solved through the usage of peripherals, specific controllers, or even the adoption of different, easier or more personalised, gaming platforms. This included a diverse range of solutions, like the implementation of bodily-controlled interactions [28], social robots [47], adapted mobile solutions [22,65], or commercial movement-based controllers, like Microsoft Kinect [66].
While most studies included neurodivergent individuals in the sample (n = 39; 81.3%), only three studies (6.3%) considered them as co-designers, meaning that those individuals were fully and horizontally included in the game design and development process. Most studies included participants as playtesters only, without specifying procedural aspects (n = 24; 50.0%), followed by nine (18.8%) studies that included them as interviewees and/or filling questionnaires. Five studies (10.4%) included participants through inclusive design framings, meaning that—although not in a fully equitable way—their feedback and creative inputs were part of the process. Conversely, seven studies (14.6%) framed participants in completely passive roles regarding the research and game design processes.
Regarding the effectiveness of the users’ feedback in the cognitive accessibility enhancement of the game, the vast majority of the studies (n = 40; 83.3%) documented it as effective. Nevertheless, there were studies that did not approach this question (n = 5; 10.4), or in which the effectiveness was unclear (n = 3; 6.3%). The inclusion of these individuals in the accessible game-based studies and interventions was seen as having secondary impacts for them in 43 studies (89.6%), with only five studies (10.4%) not approaching this question. Regarding this, most studies either referenced multiple secondary outcomes from accessible gaming interventions (n = 15; 31.3%), or specifically focused on how they promoted learning (n = 15; 31.3%). Other relevant secondary outcomes were: well-being (n = 5; 10.4%); mental health (n = 4; 8.3%); self-determination (n = 2; 4.2%); physical health-related aspects (n = 1; 2.1%); or stigma reduction (n = 1; 2.1%).
The patterns reported above are presented descriptively as they appear in the reviewed studies and form the empirical basis for the critical interpretation developed in the Discussion.
5. Discussion
In the following sections, we first synthesise patterns and tendencies that emerge directly from the reviewed literature, and subsequently interpret these findings through a critical, neurodiversity-informed lens. Where interpretative or normative claims are advanced, they are explicitly grounded in, and distinguished from, the empirical trends identified in the synthesis.
5.1. How Has Accessible Game Design Been Studied and Implemented to Support Autistic Players and Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities? (RQ1)
Accessible game design for neurodivergent players remains in an emergent stage of consolidation. Across the reviewed studies, accessibility was predominantly conceptualised as a technical or functional characteristic of systems rather than as a comprehensive socio-technical process embedded within inclusive design cultures. Only a small subset of studies explicitly defined accessibility, most often relying on ergonomic or usability-based formulations, like in the studies from Iwarsson and Ståhl [69] or Sousa et al. [59,60]. This limited conceptual clarity mirrors broader tendencies in other HCI research, where accessibility is frequently operationalised through the optimisation of user interfaces rather than as an ethical or participatory imperative [81].
The majority of works in our sample investigated accessibility through game-based interventions targeting skill development or cognitive training for specific conditions such as autism, ADHD, or intellectual disability. These studies were typically driven by therapeutic or pedagogical aims, reflecting the persistence of a medical or deficit-based framing of neurodivergence, and aligned with previous results from [82]. Few studies approached accessible game design as a cultural and political practice oriented toward empowerment and representation. The dominance of serious game frameworks demonstrates how accessibility has largely been instrumentalised for rehabilitation or learning outcomes rather than integrated into mainstream entertainment or expressive game design. This bias was also previously documented by Sousa [82] and by Hassan [83].
From a methodological standpoint, the SLR results indicate that accessible game design has been explored through a wide variety of approaches but with limited coherence, ranging from controlled experimental testing to participatory workshops. Approximately half of the studies employed mixed or quantitative designs to assess usability, performance, or engagement, yet these approaches rarely captured the lived experiences or cultural meanings of play for neurodivergent individuals. The small proportion of design case studies and participatory works signals an ongoing tension between experimental rigour and participatory inclusiveness. This finding corroborates the argument that neurodiversity research in games often prioritises measurement over meaning, reducing accessibility to an engineering problem rather than a matter of justice, previously brought by Spiel and Gerling [6].
5.2. What Are the Most Common Accessibility Barriers Faced by Autistic Players and Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities in Digital Games? (RQ2)
Considering the SLR results, barriers encountered by neurodivergent players were multidimensional and intertwined cognitive, sensory, and emotional aspects. Studies frequently reported obstacles related to excessive cognitive load, complex navigation, time pressure, or unmodifiable difficulty levels. These barriers can exacerbate executive dysfunction and anxiety, reducing the sense of competence and autonomy that games typically foster. Furthermore, inconsistent or overstimulating audiovisual feedback, such as flashing lights or dense soundscapes, often created sensory overload for autistic players or those with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
Another recurrent barrier expressed in the results was the lack of customisation options that would allow players to adapt interfaces and feedback to their sensory or attentional profiles. Despite being widely recommended in accessibility guidelines [78], such options were seldom implemented beyond colour or contrast adjustments. Social barriers also emerged: multiplayer environments were often inaccessible due to complex communication systems, absence of inclusive moderation tools, or inadequate support for collaborative interaction.
The predominance of studies focusing on single diagnostic categories in the sample contributed to a fragmented understanding of accessibility barriers. Cross-cutting challenges that affect multiple neurodivergent groups, such as unpredictability, pacing, and comprehension of implicit rules, seem to remain underexplored. The evidence indicates that accessibility for neurodivergent players continues to be treated as condition-specific rather than as a universal design principle grounded in cognitive diversity.
5.3. Which Game Design Features and Adaptations Are Most Frequently Proposed or Implemented to Enhance Accessibility for These Neurodivergent Groups? (RQ3)
Across the reviewed corpus, recurring accessibility features included customisable settings, multimodal feedback systems, and adaptive difficulty mechanisms. These elements were designed to address differences in sensory processing, attention span, and cognitive flexibility. Adaptive systems that adjusted gameplay parameters in real time were particularly valued for maintaining engagement and minimising frustration. Games offering multiple feedback modalities, like visual, auditory, and tactile, also seemed to contribute to more inclusive experiences, consistent with universal design principles.
Narrative and representational inclusivity appeared as another important dimension in the sample. Several studies introduced relatable protagonists or scenarios depicting neurodivergent experiences, which can enhance motivation and self-identification. This aligns with recent activist and scholarly calls to expand accessibility beyond mechanics to narrative and aesthetic representation [84,85]. However, such examples remained exceptional rather than normative.
Mechanics emphasising memory, attention, or emotion regulation were prevalent in the analysed studies, particularly within serious games. These features often aimed to train cognitive functions rather than simply accommodate diversity, once again illustrating the dominance of remediation frameworks, as described in previous studies [82]. Despite this, the increasing integration of multimodal and sensor-based interfaces (e.g., eye-tracking, VR, or motion control) represents a promising direction for inclusive design when grounded in user-led processes. Without direct involvement of neurodivergent players, technological sophistication alone cannot guarantee accessibility.
5.4. How Do Different Game Genres Address the Needs of Autistic Players and Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities? (RQ4)
The predominance of puzzle and simulation genres in the sample reflects a focus on cognitive training rather than entertainment or creative exploration. Puzzle-based games were frequently selected for their structured challenges, perceived suitability for skill assessment, and ease of adaptive scaling. Simulation environments, including VR and AR formats, provided opportunities for safe rehearsal of social or daily living skills. Nevertheless, such genres can risk reinforcing therapeutic paradigms that limit neurodivergent players to functional improvement contexts.
Entertainment-oriented genres such as action, adventure, or role-playing games are underrepresented in research, according to the SLR results. When they did appear, their design rarely considered sensory overload, reaction time variability, or complex narrative comprehension. Yet these genres hold substantial potential for fostering agency, creativity, and social belonging if inclusive design principles are embedded from the outset [58,59]. The gap between serious and entertainment games in terms of accessibility parallels broader divisions between assistive and mainstream technologies.
According to the produced insights, cross-genre experimentation that blends cognitive accessibility with expressive potential remains rare. The scarcity of inclusive mainstream titles can be seen as underlining a structural issue in the gaming industry, where accessibility initiatives often originate from academic or therapeutic projects rather than commercial production pipelines. Bridging this gap requires a shift from accessibility as post-hoc adaptation toward accessibility as creative practice.
5.5. To What Extent Are Autistic Individuals and Those with Intellectual Disabilities Involved in the Game Design Process? (RQ5)
The findings reveal a persistent underrepresentation of neurodivergent players as active contributors in game design. Only a small minority of studies adopted full co-design methodologies, whereas the majority involved participants merely as playtesters or evaluators. This pattern limits the transformative potential of participatory design, which has been shown to yield more meaningful and context-sensitive accessibility outcomes in previous research [35,73].
Certain notions of tokenistic participation were also observed in studies describing limited consultation or feedback sessions without equitable decision-making power. Such approaches risk perpetuating paternalistic dynamics where researchers define accessibility needs on behalf of participants. Genuine participatory frameworks, as defined in the field of critical disability studies [86], require iterative collaboration, shared authorship, and recognition of neurodivergent expertise.
Notwithstanding these limitations, a few exemplary works demonstrated the benefits of inclusive design. Participatory projects involving children with intellectual disabilities or autism often reported enhanced engagement, creative ownership, and improved usability outcomes. These results corroborate evidence from broader disability research indicating that co-creation not only improves product quality but also contributes to empowerment and social capital [87]. Expanding participatory and emancipatory research traditions in game design thus represents a necessary condition for achieving substantive, not merely procedural, accessibility.
5.6. What Gaps Exist in Current Research on Accessible Game Design for These Populations, and What Future Directions Are Suggested? (RQ6)
The synthesis of evidence highlights several critical gaps. Conceptually, there seems to be an urgent need for consensus on definitions of cognitive accessibility and inclusive design that are grounded in neurodiversity theory rather than medical diagnostic categories. Without a shared conceptual foundation, the field risks perpetuating fragmented and discipline-specific discourses. Methodologically, greater integration of qualitative and participatory methods is necessary to complement the dominance of quantitative evaluation. Longitudinal designs capable of capturing sustained impacts of accessible play are particularly scarce [83,88].
In terms of practical application, few studies examined scalability or transferability of accessible features across contexts and populations. The absence of comparative research across genres or platforms prevents the development of generalisable design guidelines. Moreover, accessibility continues to be treated as an isolated research goal instead of a cross-cutting dimension of ethics, representation, and culture. The inclusion of neurodivergent perspectives within the mainstream game industry also remains limited, reflecting the broader structural inequities in creative labour previously described in research [89].
Future research should therefore prioritise multi-stakeholder collaborations linking academia, industry, and neurodivergent communities. Such collaborations should embrace accessibility as a process of negotiation between cognitive diversity, aesthetic freedom, and technological constraint. A neurodiversity-affirming agenda for game design would view accessibility not as remediation but as creative enrichment that benefits all players.
6. Conclusions
This review demonstrates that accessible game design for neurodivergent players has advanced in both scope and complexity but remains limited in conceptual coherence and participatory grounding. The main findings illustrating this conclusion are systematised in Table 9. Most research continues to position accessibility as an ancillary feature of usability or therapeutic intervention rather than as an inherent element of cultural inclusion. The field has made tangible progress in identifying sensory, cognitive, and emotional barriers, yet it still struggles to translate these insights into holistic frameworks that recognise neurodivergent players as agents, not merely as beneficiaries.
Table 9. Synthesis of research questions, key findings, and identified gaps in the literature.
 
The evidence suggests that digital games have significant potential to enhance autonomy, self-determination, and social participation when accessibility is approached as a design ethos rather than as a set of compensatory adaptations. Nevertheless, this requires a shift from the instrumental use of games for cognitive training only toward their recognition as expressive, relational, and cultural artefacts. The findings also underscore the importance of moving beyond condition-specific approaches toward a more integrated understanding of cognitive diversity.
6.1. Implications
The implications of this review extend across theoretical, methodological, and practical domains. Theoretically, this study reinforces the value of neurodiversity as a lens that reframes accessibility from deficit correction to creative pluralism. Game design that genuinely reflects neurodivergent perspectives contributes to broader social justice goals aligned with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities [10], particularly the principles of participation and equality in cultural life.
Methodologically, the synthesis calls for more participatory and reflexive research strategies. Empirical studies must expand their focus beyond performance metrics to include lived experience, identity, and agency. Co-design methodologies, when genuinely inclusive, enable mutual learning between designers and participants, producing richer and more contextually valid insights. Such approaches align with emancipatory traditions in disability research that view participants as knowledge co-producers rather than subjects of observation [87].
Practically, the findings highlight the need for standardised frameworks and actionable design guidelines tailored to neurodivergent accessibility. Collaboration between academic researchers, developers, and neurodivergent communities can help establish benchmarks for inclusive practice. Industry adoption will depend on embedding accessibility at the earliest stages of production and recognising it as both an ethical obligation and a creative opportunity. Educational initiatives for designers and developers should also include training on cognitive accessibility and participatory ethics to sustain systemic change.
6.2. Limitations and Future Directions
This review’s conclusions are constrained by several factors, including the restriction to English-language, peer-reviewed studies and the heterogeneity of research methods and reporting standards across the sample. These limitations reduce comparability and may obscure important regional or community-based initiatives. The predominance of short-term interventions and the scarcity of participatory approaches also limit understanding of the long-term impact and sustainability of accessible design practices.
Future research should prioritise longitudinal, mixed-method, and participatory studies that include neurodivergent players as co-creators throughout the design process. Expanding collaboration between academic researchers, game developers, and advocacy groups can generate more comprehensive frameworks for cognitive and sensory accessibility. It is equally important to explore mainstream and entertainment contexts, where accessibility can function as a catalyst for creative innovation rather than as a specialised niche. A future agenda grounded in neurodiversity and inclusion will advance both the quality of accessible games and the recognition of neurodivergent voices within digital culture.
Author Contributions
Conceptualization, C.S., P.P.N. and P.M.F.; methodology, C.S., P.P.N., P.M.F. and C.C.; software, C.S.; validation, C.S. and P.P.N.; formal analysis, C.S.; investigation, C.S.; resources, C.S., P.P.N., P.M.F., J.F., P.G., M.R. and T.d.S.; data curation, C.S., P.P.N., P.M.F., J.F., P.G., M.R. and T.d.S.; writing—original draft preparation, C.S., P.P.N. and C.C.; writing—review and editing, C.S.; visualization, C.S.; supervision, F.L.; project administration, F.L.; funding acquisition, F.L. and C.S. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding
This study was funded by national funds through the Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT), I.P., under the project Games Inclusion Lab: Participatory Media Creation Processes for Accessibility (2022.07939.PTDC; https://doi.org/10.54499/2022.07939.PTDC).
Institutional Review Board Statement
Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement
Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement
Data extraction templates from studies and other related materials may be provided upon request to the first author. The PRISMA checklist for this SLR is available at: https://www.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.31007179, accessed on 6 January 2026.
Conflicts of Interest
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Disability Language/Terminology Positionality Statement
The research team responsible for this study is interdisciplinary in its nature but shares a vision of game accessibility as deeply rooted in both the social model of disability and the human rights model of disability. This means that the main premise inherent to this specific study and most of the research conducted by the team is the idea that digital media in general, and games in particular, must accommodate players’ needs and characteristics, never the opposite. This so-called proactive accessibility [90] also means that players’ voices must be considered and included at all times in the game development processes. As an SLR, this study worked with the methodological framings of other studies but operationalised this notion by carefully mapping proactive practices, as done by RQ5. Moreover, in the development of this study and reporting its results, identity-first language (e.g., “neurodivergent player” or “autistic person”) is favoured by many neurodivergent individuals because it recognizes neurodivergence as a core aspect of identity, similar to ethnicity or gender, rather than a separate or negative trait. This approach fosters what the research team acknowledges as fundamental for a more diverse playing community: a sense of pride, belonging, and positive self-concept within neurodivergent people, being also associated with lower internalized stigma and greater identification with the neurodiversity movement [91,92,93]. As a conclusion, it is relevant to emphasise that any designations with a more medical connotation were only mentioned if similarly adopted by the author(s) of each study, as they are not in alignment with the previously explained premises.

Abstract
Traditional education, characterized by rigid curricula and inflexible teaching methods, often fails to accommodate the diverse cognitive profiles of neurodivergent learners, including those with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), and dyslexia. Although e-Learning has introduced greater flexibility and interactivity into education, many existing platforms continue to adopt a one-size-fits-all approach, primarily catering to neurotypical learners, often overlooking the diverse cognitive and behavioral needs of neurodivergent students. The neurodivergent students frequently encounter challenges related to attention regulation, sensory processing, and retention of information, and these factors are rarely addressed in the design of conventional digital learning environments. While gamification and intelligent technologies have shown promise in enhancing learner engagement and personalization, their application in neurodiverse contexts remains limited and insufficiently customized. This systematic literature review investigates the potential of gamified e-Learning platforms, enhanced by advanced intelligent technologies, to create personalized and inclusive educational experiences for neurodivergent students. Following the PRISMA protocol, this study analyzed 82 studies published between 2020 and 2024 from Scopus, Web of Science, and Google Scholar databases, focusing on gamification in e-Learning and its effectiveness for neurodivergent learners. The findings suggest that traditional e-Learning platforms lack the adaptability and personalization required to engage neurodivergent students effectively. However, emerging approaches—such as adaptive gamification, multisensory content delivery, personalized feedback, and AI-driven analytics—show promise in improving engagement and learning outcomes. Technologies like reinforcement learning and generative AI offer further potential for dynamic content customization. The study identified the pressing need for future research focusing on developing inclusive, personalized, adaptive e-Learning systems and pedagogical models; conducting longitudinal studies on their efficacy; exploring sensory overload and accessibility barriers; evaluating the effectiveness of generative AI and immersive technologies; addressing the digital divide; and ensuring ethical AI-driven personalization.

Abstract
Objective:
The purpose of this study was to examine the perspectives of English as a Foreign Language Special Education teachers (EFLSE) regarding game-based learning approaches for addressing behavioral disorders in ADHD patients.
Method:
The study involved a sample (n = 131) of EFLSE teachers who completed a questionnaire to determine how feasible, acceptable, and helpful they found game-based learning.
Results:
The study revealed that EFLSE teachers perceive game-based learning to be a feasible and acceptable method for engaging ADHD students and helping to maintain their attention during game-based learning activities. Nevertheless, implementation and individualized approaches are cited as challenges. Additionally, EFLSE teachers emphasized the benefits of game-based learning, including improved problem-solving, assessment methods, collaboration, and the acquisition of academic skills.
Conclusions:
The study contributes insights for educators, policymakers, and researchers that can support the development of evidence-based interventions offering game-based learning for students with ADHD.

Evaluation of the Effect of a Serious Game on the Performance of Daily Routines by Autistic and ADHD Children
Dany Lussier-Desrochers 1,✉, Line Massé 1, Isabelle Simonato 1, Yves Lachapelle 1, Valérie Godin-Tremblay 2, Annie Lemieux 1
	Author information
	Article notes
	Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC9896450  PMID: 36777795
Abstract
Objectives
Learning and performing new routines are difficult for children with neurodevelopmental disorders. Studies have shown that consistency in child reinforcement and parental support are effective. For example, digital solutions such as serious games can be used to support parents and children in developing these life skills. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of a serious game on the performance of daily routines by autistic and ADHD children.
Methods
A total of 201 families (parents and children) participated in the study. The study used a combined 3 (intervention) × 3 (diagnosis) × 3 (time) research design with repeated measures. Participants were randomly assigned to three intervention groups (serious game, parental support, and a combination of serious game and parental support) based on their diagnosis (ASD, ADHD, neurotypical). Latent growth modeling and repeated ANOVAS were performed to analyze routine scores collected at three moments (baseline, midpoint, persistence) over an 8-week period.
Results
Results show a moderating effect of diagnosis on child routine trajectory. For ADHD participants, we observed a very important significant clinical effect for two interventions (parental support alone and combination of serious game and parental support) where for ASD children, this effect is observed for only one treatment (combination of serious game and parental support). For neurotypical children, results indicate a very important and significant clinical effect when they use the serious game alone.
Conclusions
Results show that the serious game can improve children’s routines. However, for some neurodevelopmental profiles (ASD or ADHD), the addition of parental support produces greater clinical improvements.
Keywords: Routines, Serious game, Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, Autism
________________________________________
According to Fiese (2007), routines play a central role in child development. In addition, other researchers have reported that they promoted harmonious family dynamics (Evans & Rodger, 2008; Segal, 2004). A routine is defined as a sequence of clear and well-established activities and rules related to everyday situations (e.g., getting up, getting ready for school, eating, doing homework, or going to bed; Centre de recherche pour l’inclusion des personnes en situation de handicap [CRISPESH], 2018; Massé et al., 2011). Barkley (2020) indicated that routines take different forms depending on the time of day (morning, home from school, evening), the time of year (school or vacation), or the child’s age. They also represent markers that make the child aware of parental expectations and help the child benefit from a predictable, stable, and safe environment (Fiese, 2006, 2007). Massé et al. (2011) determined that routines also constitute a common ground between the child and parents about family rules. Studies showed that this environment can, among other things, prevent the occurrence of some behavioral problems (Bagatell, 2016), promote positive child participation (Coussens et al., 2020), and solve common discipline problems related to getting ready for school, bedtime, or doing homework (Bridley & Jordan, 2012; Delemere & Dounavi, 2018). Lastly, several studies demonstrated that routines contribute to the development of a child’s independence, autonomy, sense of responsibility, and self-esteem (George & Soloman, 2008; Martin et al., 2012).
In families of children with neurodevelopmental disorders such as attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or autism spectrum disorder (ASD), routines are strongly associated with lower levels of externalizing and internalizing behavior (McRae et al., 2019; Stoppelbein et al., 2016) and a higher quality of life (Bowling et al., 2019; Schlebusch et al., 2016).
A number of researchers reported that autistic and ADHD children find learning, adopting, and performing new routines challenging mainly because they face difficulties with executive functioning (Barkley, 2015a, 2015b; Sinzig et al., 2014). Although manifestations might vary depending on the individual and diagnosis, these children often struggle with activation, behavioral or emotional self-regulation, inhibition, cognitive flexibility, planning, organization, attention, working memory, or time management (Barkley, 2015a; Sinzig et al., 2014). For example, an emotional self-regulation issue might result in low motivation and consequently hinder engagement and tolerance to delayed gratification. In contrast, behavioral self-regulation difficulties could impair a child’s performance. Furthermore, poor planning, organizing skills working memory and time management might interfere with a child’s ability to consistently prepare and coordinate routines. For autistic children, behaviors associated with aggression (Hodgetts et al., 2013) and sensory processing (self-stimulation, sensory avoidance, sensory seeking) represent the challenges faced with routine completion (Bagby et al., 2012; Schaaf et al., 2011). In addition, their propensity to desire sameness could interfere with parents’ requests and expectations concerning routines (McRae et al., 2018).
With respect to parents of autistic and ADHD children, many studies highlighted the challenges they have encountered in establishing and maintaining healthy, productive routines (Hodgetts et al., 2013; Schaaf et al., 2011). Research showed that mornings, mealtimes, homework, bedtime, and household chores were particularly difficult for them (Firmin & Phillips, 2009; Taylor et al., 2008) requiring substantial parental guidance, consistency, and frequent reinforcement, which can become burdensome (see Bagby et al., 2012; Corcoran et al., 2017). Sallee’s (2015) study reported that parents feel overwhelmed, exhausted, and constantly stressed with routines. Johnston and Mash (2001) also demonstrated that parental stress affects the relationship parents built with their child. This situation could lead to a decrease in positive interactions or an increase in negative remarks, which, in turn, influence children’s self-esteem. Larson (2006) stated that mothers of autistic children found it difficult to manage and maintain routines in their families. In the case of ADHD, 10 to 20% of mothers and nearly 50% of fathers report having ADHD symptoms themselves (Kessler et al., 2006). Such parental difficulties might represent another risk factor interfering with the management of routines, as expressed by Dawson et al. (2016) and Gray et al. (2020).
Several studies explored the effects of different interventions on routine completion. Some authors suggested that an ABC (antecedents, behaviors, consequences) grid is useful in helping parents understand the causes of certain problem behaviors and their impacts on routines for autistic children from 3 to 9 years old (Lucyshyn et al., 2018; Sears et al., 2013) or for ADHD children from 3 to 17 years old (Dekkers et al., 2022). Coaching and guiding children are also considered important factors associated with the intervention successfully impacting daily routines. Pictograms might help the autistic or ADHD child remember the sequence of steps in the routine (Goldman et al., 2018) and could be related to time reminders (Barkley, 2020; Massé et al., 2011). Banda et al. (2009) stated that visual interventions increase engagement and task completion rates of elementary autistic children. Additionally, some authors recommended supporting the child’s problem-solving ability for ADHD children (Barkley, 2020; Massé et al., 2011). Consistency of the parents’ expectations is also proved to be essential (Barkley, 2020).
Positive reinforcement promotes the expression and maintenance of expected behaviors while providing recognition of effort and improvement to children with ADHD aged from 3 to 17 years old (Dekkers et al., 2022; Sawyer et al., 2015) or autistic children from 3 to 9 years old (Sears et al., 2013). Concerning reinforcement, Slattery et al. (2016) mentioned that positive child involvement is beneficial for ADHD boys from 9 to 12 years old. Kazdin (2013) also stated that effective reinforcement should meet certain conditions (alternating different strategies, avoiding negative criticism, using visual techniques such as a motivational chart or stickers). In sum, the process of planning and supervising daily routines can be challenging for families and especially those involving children with neurodevelopmental disorders. To ensure the effectiveness of interventions, constancy in child reinforcement (Barkley, 2020) and parental support could provide valuable leverage (Lucyshyn et al., 2018; Sears et al., 2013).
Recent studies also suggest that computer-based interventions, such as serious games, might be useful in supporting routine completion for autistic and ADHD children. A serious game is a digital solution that combines an educational and informative intention in a learning environment using game components (Perron, 2012). Serious games can take many forms, from console or computer to mobile games (Zheng et al., 2021).
In a literature review, Kokol et al. (2020) identified interventions using serious games for children and young adults (ages 2–24) with developmental disabilities. Of the 145 studies, 45 were conducted with children with autism and 24 with ADHD children. These authors concluded that these intervention procedures have the potential to regulate stress and emotions as well as reducing anxiety of children with neurodevelopmental disorders.
In the area of ADHD, preliminary results from early studies supported those conclusions. For example, the literature review by Cibrian et al. (2022) concludes that serious games engage children in the learning process and add a new range of intervention tools to support the development of academic and life skills. By providing interactive experiences, serious game intervention can support behavioral motivation and improve engagement among children. In their review, Zheng et al. (2021) noted that the use of serious games as a treatment procedure with these children improved daily life skills, increased enthusiasm, and promoted positive social interactions. More specifically, in relation to the executive functions, it has been observed that some serious games can have a positive effect on attention, working memory, and emotional regulation. Some authors have also questioned possible gender differences. In this regard, only one study (Bul, 2017) observed greater improvements for the girls.
Of the 19 articles analyzed by Sandgreen et al. (2021) in their meta-analysis on the use of digital intervention with individuals with autism, 14 specifically targeted children. Of these, only one used a serious game with 7-year-olds to support emotion recognition (Fridenson-Hayo et al., 2017). The study, conducted over 8 weeks with an intervention group (n=34) and a control group (n=40), revealed a small clinical effect (Cohen’s d 0.40). Vallefuoco et al. (2022) use the serious game specifically for the development of daily living skills related to shopping procedures (learning steps, attention toward tasks, and problem-solving) with adolescents (mean of 11.9 years). The study revealed a significant improvement in adaptive skills as measured by the Vineland (VABS-II). Finally, in their review of the literature, Kokol et al. (2020) mentioned that serious games can improve recognizing emotions, concentration, motivate attention, and enhance social life. These results showed that this area of research is unfolding and that the use of this type of intervention is more documented in the field of ADHD. According to Whyte et al. (2015), serious game intervention could be complementary and cost-effective intervention methods that can be used in a variety of settings.
Essentially, the studies emphasize that ADHD and ASD children have difficulty carrying out their daily routines. The authors therefore insist on the importance of interventions supporting both children and parents. The present study used computer-based intervention to improve routines of autistic and ADHD children. Specifically, the main objective was to compare the effects of a serious game and parent coaching on the execution of daily routines across diagnosis through a repeated measures research design.
Method
Participants
The sample size was set by with G*Power 3.1 (Faul et al., 2009), and the following parameters were used: (1) effect size of 0.25 (proposed by Cohen, 1988), (2) type I error of 5%, (3) test power: type II error of 80%, (4) 12 group comparisons, (5) three repeated measures, and (6) a nonsphericity epsilon (ε) correction criterion of 1. Calculations established a sample size of 192 participants leading us to a critical F of 1.57 (numerator degree of freedom of 22 and denominator degree of freedom of 360) and an estimated statistical power of 0.80. Ethical concerns related to the assignment of children with neurodevelopmental disorders in control conditions (without any interventions) arose in the context of COVID-19 pandemic. Consequently, the research team decided to eliminate this condition and limit the number of groups to nine, thereby increasing the statistical power of the analyses (0.82).
Parents and children were recruited through a database created by the Neuro Solutions Group. To be included in this database, parents provided information about the family status, the number of children in the family, and the technology they are currently using. For each child, they also provided details about their neurodevelopmental profile (neurotypical, ADHD, ASD, intellectual disability) and specified if visual, motor, or hearing impairments were present. They also authorized the Neuro Solution Group to share sociodemographic information with the research team. The list sent to researchers included this information as well as the contact details for 383 families. Among them, 320 met the following inclusion criteria: (1) family with a child (neurotypical, ADHD, or ASD) between 6 and 12 years of age, (2) residence in the province of Quebec (Canada), (3) fluent in French, and (4) a Wi-Fi network. Children diagnosed with an intellectual disability and those with motor or visual impairment, as reported in the database, were excluded from the sample. All participants were contacted by email. The message included a brief presentation of the research project and an internet link giving access to additional information and a consent form. Electronic consent was preferred because the researchers wanted to have a maximum of participants in a huge territory. A total of 201 children participated in the study. This deliberate oversampling was intended to prevent a decrease in statistical power due to possible attrition over time. Table 1 presents a description of children’s gender and clinical profile.
Table 1.
Sample demographics by gender and diagnosis (N = 201)
	Neurotypical	ADHD	ASD	Total
Girl	25	28	9	62
Boy	28	76	35	139
Total	53	104	44	201
Open in a new tab
In regard to the parents’ profile, most mothers had either a college (29.8%) or a graduate degree (52.3%), whereas a little more than two-thirds (68.9%) of the fathers had an undergraduate degree. The majority (71.5%) of the families had an annual income of $75,000 or more. It should also be noted that, on average, the families mentioned having experienced 2.09 stressful events since the beginning of the school year during which the study was conducted. These events included the COVID-19 pandemic, access to new medical or psychosocial services for their child, and adjustment of the child’s medication. Lastly, parents provided information about their past and current interventions on daily routines. Some of the most common approaches used were parental supervision, direct help or assistance, medication, and cutting back on their requirements of the child.
Procedures
The study used a combined 3 (diagnosis) × 3 (intervention) × 3 (time) research design with repeated measures of the time variable. Initially, the 201 participants were classified by diagnosis and then randomly assigned to one of the three intervention groups. Table 2 shows the distribution of participants.
Table 2.
Distribution of participants by intervention group and diagnosis (N = 201)
	Neurotypical	ADHD	ASD	Total
Serious game and parental support (group 1)	16	36	14	66
Serious game (group 2)	17	35	15	67
Parental support (group 3)	20	33	15	68
Total	53	104	44	201
Open in a new tab
In group 1, both children and parents were targeted by the intervention. Children had access to a beta version of a serious game (Kairos) providing support and rewards for the accomplishment of daily routines (e.g., breakfast, making the bed, doing homework, brushing teeth). At specific moments (scheduled by the parents in the private section), the avatar sent a reminder to the children and invited them to perform a specific routine. The avatar also helped them by presenting its steps. Once completed, the routine is immediately reinforced by appraisals from the avatar. The Kairos application then prompted the parents to confirm the routine completion. Afterward, children were awarded points and powers that could later be used by the children to customize or help the avatar in the serious game. Avatar upgrades provide unique skills that were necessary to progress in the video game. Kairos integrated the core elements of a serious game and designing guidelines for ADHD and autistic children (Powell et al., 2019; Whyte et al., 2015).
In group 1, parents had access to parental support integrated in a private section of Kairos. This section was created by researchers in the field of psychoeducation and based on an intervention program developed by Massé et al. (2011). The parental support was presented in the form of guidelines regarding the implementation of daily routines. Designed as a simple and accessible information database, the guidelines addressed routines with different angles. It first gave tips about four key routines (morning routine, meals, homework, and sleep). Secondly, it presented suggestions on planning and managing routines to promote autonomy (e.g., strategies to facilitate performing routines, qualities of good directive, positive reinforcement, children’s physical development, ABC grid). Lastly, a reference section provided a list of hyperlinks for additional information.
In group 2, the intervention was exclusively focused on children. Children in this group used the serious game (support and rewards), but the parents did not have access to parental support. In group 3, the electronic tablet and the serious game were unavailable to children. Parents in this group only had access to the parental support presented on the electronic tablet. This information was identical to the one provided to parents on group 1. Participants were free to consult or use this information. Throughout the study, parents were able to communicate with the research team for questions related to the study or with the Neuro Solutions Group for technical questions. This study was conducted over an 8-week period (March to May 2021); three moments were identified for the repeated measures.
Baseline (Time 0)
At baseline, all parents were invited to complete the electronic version of the Routine Achievement Assessment Tool and the Sociodemographic Questionnaire. Once the questionnaires had been completed, an electronic tablet (Samsung Galaxy Tab A – approximately C$175) has been sent to the families. Parents of the 3 intervention groups also had to identify one challenging routine that their child had to perform between time 0 and time 1 (e.g., getting ready for school, doing homework, going to bed). This routine had to remain the same for the first 4-week period. In groups 1 and 2, parents had to set up all the components associated with the chosen routine in the Kairos app preinstalled on the electronic tablet. A straightforward, intuitive interface located in a private secured section guided parents in setting up all the components (identification of routine, task sequence, time scheduling, and reinforcement). The beta version used in this study was not context aware, and parents had to regularly validate routines executed by their child in their private section. Parents had to complete this setup in order to activate Kairos’ reminders and reward system. Lastly, parents and children from groups 1 and 2 were invited to create together a game avatar.
Halfway Measure (Time 1)
After the first 4-week period, an email was sent to all parents to remind them to complete the Routine Achievement Assessment Tool for a second time. At this moment, parents from groups 1, 2, and 3 were allowed to change routines if they judged that their child had acquired it. This choice was based on parents’ perceptions, and no criteria or routine mastery standards were provided to guide them in this decision-making process.
Persistence Measure (Time 2)
The last part of this study consisted in a persistence measure 4 weeks after the halfway measure (or 8 weeks after time 0). For the last time, all parents completed the Routine Achievement Assessment Tool. After this period, all the participants (groups 1, 2, and 3) who completed all the assessment tools were given unlimited access to the retail version of Kairos.
Adjustments Due to the COVID-19 Outbreak
COVID-19 had an impact on the experimental protocol planned by the research team. The study could not be postponed for a number of reasons. First, electronic tablets were sent out weeks before the COVID-19 outbreak started in Quebec. Second, the baseline data had already been collected when the government decided to close temporarily schools as COVID-19 spread throughout the province. The research team was concerned about the attrition and the possible loss of thousands of dollars of material already in the hands of participants. Accordingly, the team decided to make some methodological adjustments. Consequently, we so informed families and encouraged them to follow the protocol. The study was put off for 2 weeks to let them adapt to this new situation. It is important to point out that the participants had the right to drop out of the project without any consequences. They were also allowed to keep their electronic tablets.
Measures
Sociodemographic Questionnaire
This parent-report online questionnaire was used to complete the sociodemographic data gathered in the Neuro Solution Group database. Parents provided information about stressful events since the beginning of the school year, income, and their level of education.
Routine Achievement Assessment Tool
An adapted version of the Before School Functioning Questionnaire (BSFQ; Wilens et al., 2010) was used to evaluate the effects of interventions on the children’s routines. The first adaptations were a French-language translation involving a committee approach and a forward-only translation with testing (Maneesriwongul & Dixon, 2004). A second adaptation was intended to adjust the instrument to the study objectives, the COVID-19 context, and Kairos features. Given that our study focused on routines throughout the day, the researchers significantly adapted the original instrument. First, they removed items targeting specific tasks (getting dressed, personal hygiene, meals, misplacing, and losing items). Second, they rephrased some items to make them easily observable by parents. Third, they deleted items not specifically related to routines (be calm and quiet, be hyperactive, awaiting turn, interrupt, and blurt out). The researchers also added new items associated with cognitive functioning and made sure that each executive function was evaluated (attention, working memory, self-regulation, managing frustration, organizing, following directions, time management). These adaptations were based on the scientific literature and the researchers’ expertise concerning the effects of executive functioning on routine achievement (Massé et al., 2011). Lastly, the original Likert scales were adjusted with the addition of a “does not apply” option.
In the final version, the parents were asked to indicate their level of agreement with 20 statements (the BSFQ also has 20 items) on a 6-point Likert scale (strongly disagree, disagree, somewhat disagree, somewhat agree, agree, strongly agree). An average score was calculated and then divided by the number of items answered. A low score indicates problems with routine achievement. The parents completed the instrument in an average time of 5 min. Post-study analysis shows that the instrument has good internal consistency (Cronbach’s alpha of .87) (Simonato et al., 2022).
Data Analyses
Latent growth modeling (LGM) was used to analyze routine scores collected over the 8-week period. According to Marcoulides (2019), LGM is currently the most popular method of analysis in social and educational studies when repeated measures are gathered. Acknowledged for its reliability and robustness, it allows for analysis of continuous, dichotomous, or categorical values. Part of the structural equation modeling family of statistical analysis, LGM specifically evaluates relationships between variables using variance and covariance matrices. This analysis represents a valuable alternative to repeated ANOVA measures or hierarchical linear modeling, since it simultaneously addresses between-subject and within-subject variability (Bryk & Raudenbush, 1992). LGM also enhances statistical techniques by providing optimal management of missing data (Curran et al., 2010).
At first, descriptive and correlational analyses were performed to verify the distribution of longitudinal variables and explore correlations over the different time periods. No distribution abnormality was observed. Therefore, different models were tested using the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) method for normal distribution. Moreover, the significant correlations showed relative score stability over time. To compensate for missing data, model estimations were calculated with the full information maximum likelihood (FIML) option. This technique estimates model parameters using the maximum information available from the covariance matrix without excluding subjects with missing data.
A four-step analysis was performed. First, the average longitudinal trajectory of the sample across the three measurement times was estimated with a baseline model precisely calculated with a LGM with two latent factors. The factors were the intercept (initial status) and the slope (direction and rate of change over time). The second step of the analysis (model 2) evaluated the effects of three covariates (age, gender, and intervention) on the variation of the slope and the intercept of the average trajectory. The moderating effects of children age and clinical profile (ASD, ADHD, or neurotypical) on routine score trajectories were tested in the third phase. Statistics such as the chi-square test (Bollen, 1989), root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA; Brown & Cudeck, 1993; Hu & Bentler, 1999), and comparative fit index (CFI; Bentler, 1990) were used to validate the models. Lastly, repeated ANOVAS measures were performed to improve our understanding of the effects of moderating variables on the variation of routine score trajectories. Cohen’s d statistic was calculated to weigh the magnitude of the observed differences. Score interpretation was based on Sawilowsky’s (2003) criteria.
Results
First, the results presented in Table 3 show that the ADHD participants were largely overrepresented in the sample. At time 0, however, the number of participants per intervention group was almost equivalent. Descriptive analyses reveal an overall sample attrition of 10% over the 8-week period. The ADHD group had the highest attrition rate (−14%), followed by the ASD (−7%), and neurotypical (−6%) groups. In regard to routine scores, Table 3 shows an overall improvement of child routines regardless of clinical profile or intervention method.
Table 3.
Mean scores and standard deviations of routine scores by intervention and clinical profile over the 8-week period (N = 201)
Measure	Time 0 (beginning)	Time 1 (4 weeks)	Time 2 (8 weeks)
	n	M	SD	n	M	SD	n	M	SD
Serious game and parental support (group 1)
Neurotypical	16	3.06	0.73	16	3.65	1.08	15	3.48	1.00
ADHD	36	2.61	0.50	27	3.38	0.93	25	3.13	0.90
ASD	14	2.67	0.50	15	3.36	1.03	14	3.86	1.08
Total (group 1)	66	2.73	0.59	58	3.44	0.99	54	3.41	1.00
Serious game (group 2)
Neurotypical	17	2.95	0.68	17	3.56	0.78	16	4.01	0.96
ADHD	35	2.79	0.76	32	3.05	0.98	31	3.17	0.83
ASD	15	2.84	0.84	14	2.97	0.70	12	3.24	0.64
Total (group 2)	67	2.84	0.75	63	3.17	0.89	59	3.41	0.90
Parental support (group 3)
Neurotypical	20	2.89	0.72	17	3.03	0.86	19	3.21	0.89
ADHD	33	2.57	0.60	31	3.26	0.81	33	3.11	0.74
ASD	15	3.01	0.89	14	3.16	0.64	15	3.18	0.60
Total (group 3)	68	2.76	0.72	62	3.17	0.78	67	3.15	0.75
All conditions
Neurotypical	53	2.96	0.70	50	3.40	0.94	50	3.54	0.99
ADHD	104	2.66	0.63	90	3.22	0.91	89	3.14	0.81
ASD	44	2.84	0.76	43	3.16	0.81	41	3.43	0.85
Total	201	2.78	0.69	183	3.26	0.90	180	3.32	0.88
Open in a new tab
The Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated to explore participant stability between measurement periods. The strong correlations presented in Table 4 suggest that the participants maintained their relative group positions between measurement times. These scores are expected in longitudinal designs (Deković et al., 2004).
Table 4.
Pearson correlation coefficients for the three time periods (N = 201)
	Time 0	Time 1	Time 2
Time 0 (beginning)	---	.40***	.40***
Time 1 (4 weeks)	.40***	---	.54***
Time 2 (8 weeks)	.40***	.54***	---
Open in a new tab
*p ≤ .05. **p ≤ .01. ***p ≤ .001
Table 5 presents the results from LGM trajectory models over the 8-week period. To simplify the presentation of the results, all models have been combined in a single table. All contrasts are the results of two regression analyses.
Table 5.
Results of the analyses of the LGM trajectory models over the 8-week period (N = 201)
	Model 1	Model 2	Model 3	Model 4
Intercept (value)	-3.17 (.05)***	-3.03 (.26)***	-3.22 (.13)***	-2.74 (.28)***
Slope (value)	- .07 (.03)*	- .42 (.17)*	- .13 (.08)	- .50 (.18)**
Intercept (variance)	- .28 (.08)***	- .28 (.08)***	- .28 (.08)***	- .27 (.08)***
Slope (variance)	- .11 (.04)*	- .10 (.04)*	- .09 (.04)*	- .09 (.04)*
Covariable effects on the intercept
Age		- .03 (.03)	- .04 (.05)	- .05 (.03)
Gender		−.09 (.10)	−.08 (.10)	−.03 (.10)
Diagnosis				−.13 (.05)**
Gr 2 vs. Gr 1		- .04 (.12)	- .02 (.06)	-.02 (.06)
Gr 3 vs. Gr 1		−.01 (.12)	−.01 (.06)	−.02 (.06)
Gr 1 vs. Gr 2		−.04 (.12)	−.02 (.05)	−.02 (.05)
Gr 3 vs. Gr 2		−.05 (.11)	−.03 (.05)	−.04 (.05)
Gr 2 vs. Gr 1 × age			.04 (.06)	
Gr 3 vs. Gr 1 × age			.04 (.06)	
Gr 1 vs. Gr 2 × age			−.04 (.06)	
Gr 3 vs. Gr 2 × age			.00 (.05)	
Gr 2 vs. Gr 1 × diagnosis				.05 (.06)
Gr 3 vs. Gr 1 × diagnosis				.07 (.06)
Gr 1 vs. Gr 2 × diagnosis				−.04 (.05)
Gr 3 vs. Gr 2 × diagnosis				.02 (.05)
Covariable effects on the slope
Age		−.04 (.02)*	−.06 (.03)*	−.04 (.02)*
Gender		−.08 (.07)	−.09 (.07)	−.08 (.07)
Diagnosis				.02 (.03)
Gr 2 vs. Gr 1		−.15 (.08)	−.08 (.04)	−.08 (.04)
Gr 3 vs. Gr 1		−.19 (.08)*	−.09 (.04)*	−.09 (.04)*
Gr 1 vs. Gr 2		- .15 (.08)	-.07 (.04)	.07 (.04)
Gr 3 vs. Gr 2		−.04 (.07)	−.01 (.03)	−.01 (.03)
Gr 2 vs. Gr 1 × age			−.06 (.04)	
Gr 3 vs. Gr 1 × age			−.00 (.04)	
Gr 1 vs. Gr 2 × age			.05 (.04)	
Gr 3 vs. Gr 2 × age			.05 (.03)	
Gr 2 vs. Gr 1 × diagnosis				−.13 (.04)***
Gr 3 vs. Gr 1 × diagnosis				−.07 (.04)
Gr 1 vs. Gr 2 × diagnosis				.12 (.04)***
Gr 3 vs. Gr 2 × diagnosis				.06 (.03)*
Open in a new tab
All model fits were determined with three fit indices according to Hu and Bentler (1999) criteria, i.e., the chi-square test, the root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA), and the comparative fit index (CFI)
*p ≤ 0.05. **p ≤ 0.01. ***p ≤ 0.001
The baseline model (model 1) presents the average trajectory of children who participated in the study without considering the clinical profile or the experimental conditions. On average, the children had a routine score of 3.17 (p = .00) at the intercept (T1). This score increased significantly over the three measurement times with a slope of .07 (p = .04), showing overall improvement in the children’s daily routines. The significant variation in intercept and slope indicates heterogeneity in the mean trajectory and justifies the inclusion of covariates to explain the variances.
The second model tested the effects of covariates (age, gender, and intervention group) on the children’s routine scores. The results revealed no significant difference between groups at the intercept. Therefore, neither age nor gender was associated with the score at T1. Significant effects on the slope, however, were observed. First, a negative effect of age indicated that the youngest participants experienced the greatest improvement in routines. The group effect also suggested that group 1 (combination of serious game and parental support) improved marginally more than group 2 (serious game alone) (p = .07) and significantly more than group 3 (parental support alone) (p = .03). There were no significant differences between the slopes of group 2 and group 3.
Model 3 presents the moderating effect of age on routines according to the intervention group. The nonsignificant results revealed that the observed differences in trajectories across intervention groups were not moderated by age.
Lastly, the interaction effect observed in the last model (model 4) confirmed a moderating effect of diagnosis on child routine trajectory. Post hoc analyses were then performed to understand the moderating effect of diagnosis on trajectories. Table 6 presents the results of the ANOVAS.
Table 6.
Results of the repeated ANOVAS for moderating variables on routine score trajectories
Measure		T1-T0	T2-T1	T2-T0
		n	Diff	p-value	n	Diff	p-value	n	Diff	p-value
Serious game and parental support (group 1)	Typical	12	0.443	0.052	11	−0.141	0.495	11	0.371	0.053
	ADHD	21	0.760	0.001***	17	−0.048	0.761	19	0.513	0.006**
	ASD	10	0.786	0.045*	10	0.746	0.090	9	1.591	0.004**
	Total	43	0.678	0.000***	38	0.134	0.366	39	0.722	0.000***
Serious game (group 2)	Typical	20	0.701	0.000***	20	0.248	0.215	20	0.949	0.000***
	ADHD	38	0.274	0.114	37	0.062	0.649	37	0.347	0.037*
	ASD	17	0.184	0.394	16	0.119	0.546	15	0.358	0.067
	Total	75	0.368	0.001*	73	0.126	0.194	72	0.516	0.000***
Parental support (group 3)	Typical	17	0.206	0.039*	17	0.092	0.463	19	0.324	0.034*
	ADHD	29	0.655	0.000***	30	−0.064	0.741	31	0.558	0.000***
	ASD	14	0.230	0.449	14	−0.045	0.795	15	0.172	0.475
	Total	60	0.428	0.000***	61	−0.017	0.878	65	0.400	0.000***
Open in a new tab
Values in bold indicate significant values
*p ≤ 0.05. **p ≤ 0.01. ***p ≤ 0.001
Figure 1 presents the effect size calculated by the mean of Cohen’s d analyses.
Fig. 1.
 
Open in a new tab
Results of Cohen d analyses for the diagnosis and intervention groups
The post hoc analyses revealed a very large clinical effect (d > 1.2) on the routines of ADHD participants when two interventions modalities were used (combination of serious game and parental support and parental support alone). This effect was mainly between times 0 and 1 (first 4 weeks). It is important to point out, however, that, for these two interventions, the overall effect after 8 weeks was less than the initial effect observed during the first 4 weeks. It should also be mentioned that using serious game alone had a significant medium clinical effect (d = 0.72) on the ADHD group; 8 weeks were needed to observe this effect.
For autistic children, significant differences between measurement times were observed but only when serious game and parental support were combined. The data also show that a huge significant clinical effect (d = 2.81) occurred after 8 weeks. A very large and significant clinical effect (d = 1.55) also occurred in the first 4 weeks. These results suggest that the routines of autistic children only improve when intervention focused on both children and parents.
For the neurotypical children, the analyses revealed a huge significant clinical effect (d = 2.28) of the serious game on the routine scores. As for the ADHD children, the overall effect after 8 weeks was smaller than that observed in the first 4 weeks (d = 2.09) but remained quite large. For neurotypical children, the use of parental support also improved the routines in the first 4 weeks; the clinical effect was large (d = 1.12) and significant. After 8 weeks, the clinical effect remained significant but decreased slightly (d = 1.08). Lastly, it is important to point out that the inconsistencies between ANOVA and Cohen’s d results for the neurotypical children in the serious game and parental support condition (group 1) may be explained by the small group size. However, the p-value is very close to the significance level of 0.05.
Discussion
Several scientific studies evaluated the effects of parental guidance and supervision on the execution of daily routines by children with neurodevelopmental disorders (Dawson-Squibb et al., 2020; Kucharczyk et al., 2019). Recently, serious games have been added to the intervention spectrum, yielding encouraging preliminary results (Kokol et al., 2020). This study is part of this course of action and specifically evaluated the effects of a serious game and parental support on the performance of daily routines by children between the ages of 6 and 12 years with a neurodevelopmental disorder (ASD or ADHD). The serious game (Kairos) used in this study was created by the Neuro Solutions Group in accordance with clinical and scientific recommendations provided by clinicians and researchers (motivating storyline, contextualized learning, targeted skills to accomplish incremental learning goals, rewards, time reminders, and feedback; Barkley, 2020; Whyte et al., 2015). It is also in phase with serious games’ designing guidelines for ADHD children (instant positive reward, customizable virtual environments, imitation learning, short-term goals, and the use of an avatar that the child can relate to; Powell et al., 2019) and autistic children (use dynamic stimuli to gather attention, predictability, repeatability, motivating storyline, explicit goal; Carlier et al., 2020; Whyte et al., 2015).
The results from the 8-week experiment showed an overall improvement in the daily routines of children regardless of diagnosis or intervention/treatment. LGM, however, showed that diagnosis and treatment influenced the trajectory of routine scores over time. Thus, for neurotypical children, the serious game induced a large clinical effect on routines in the first 4 weeks of use. This large effect was also observed in the ADHD children but only when the serious game and the parental support were combined over a longer period (8 weeks).
In sum, these results suggest that, under certain conditions, serious games can be clinically effective in improving some aspects of daily routines (e.g., understanding and following instructions, listening, task organization, forgetting steps, procrastination, and time management) and outweigh children’s difficulties affecting routine learning and completion (activation, self-regulation, inhibition, planning, organization, attention; Barkley, 2015b; Sinzig et al., 2014). Furthermore, the results indicated that parental support significantly improved the routines of neurotypical and ADHD children. In the case of autistic participants, the effectiveness of parental support increased when it is paired with the serious game. These findings also highlight the benefits of less restrictive parenting practices (Dose et al., 2017). Moreover, they stress the importance of parental support when implanting new intervention modalities. As a matter of fact, parents facing challenges with their parental practices might struggle with adopting different methods, which might have a negative effect on the adoption or sustainability of effective daily routines (Dawson et al., 2016; Gray et al., 2020). Lastly, the fact that the youngest participants achieved the greatest routine improvement might be explained by the conclusions reached by Dunn et al. (2009), who stated that younger children appear to benefit more than older children from intensified parental supervision in routine completion. However, for AHDH children, age did not seem to have a moderating effect on parental interventions (Lee et al., 2012).
Several authors have mentioned that children using technology can be a concern (Alghamdi, 2016; Mustafaoğlu et al., 2018). To limit the influence of this ethical issue, the research and design teams implemented a number of preventive measures. First, an information module was included in Kairos. Created by clinicians and researchers, this part included tips on screen time management, signs indicating that technology use could become problematic, and useful references. In addition, the design team ensured that mission completion—used as daily reinforcement in the video game—does not exceed 5 min. Lastly, the researchers encouraged the designers to include information in the commercialized version on how to slowly and gradually substitute social reinforcement for the tangible reinforcement. This phasing out has been recognized as an important part of behavior modification interventions (Kazdin, 2013).
Limitations and Future Research
The study has some limitations. First, the context of COVID-19 pandemic greatly influenced its conduct. Initially, the study was to be carried out during the school year (March to May 2020); and the first 4 weeks were to be devoted to morning routines (before leaving for school). When the study began, however, the Quebec government announced that schools would be closed indefinitely. Considering the significant financial investment (more than $30,000 worth of materials had already been sent to participating families), the requirements of the funding agencies, the risks of sample attrition, and the ethical issues related to the consent already obtained from parents, the researchers decided that it was better to continue the study, allowing families to choose whether to include the morning or evening routines. Clearly, the exceptional context of school closures affected the implementation of the routines, but it also seemed that the study allowed families to maintain some structure in a context of great uncertainty. Moreover, the low level of attrition in the sample (10%) testifies the participants’ desire to maintain a certain number of routines in their daily lives. In sum, the experimental context was not optimal. Several research biases influenced the external validity of the research and thus limit the possibilities of generalization to a post-pandemic context. Nonetheless, the strengths of the design and analyses allow us to believe that the intervention modalities did indeed positively influence children in a health crisis.
As another limitation, the protocol allowed parents to change the routine between halfway and persistence measures. Furthermore, parents were not supported in this decision-making process, and mastery criteria were not provided to participants. This unsupervised change made by parents probably induced variability and influenced the score on the Routine Achievement Assessment Tool. Lastly, the study only measured the effect of the interventions on global routine execution. The scientific literature stated, however, that a systemic approach was more appropriate when studying routines (Coussens et al., 2020; Fiese, 2007).
Future studies should include evaluation of other aspects of routines related to children (e.g., self-esteem, behavioral problems, and positive participation), parents (e.g., stress, parental self-efficacy, self-esteem, and depression), and family environment (e.g., harmony, predictability, sibling relationships, and stability and security of the family setting). It might also be interesting to assess collateral effects outside the family setting such as school. Future studies should address the moderating effect of age. Lastly, mixed protocols including qualitative measures might be useful in gaining a better understanding of children’s and parents’ perceptions about the use of technologies in their household.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank MEDTEQ, La Fondation les Petits Trésors, MITACS, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) for their financial support. They are also grateful to the families for their participation.
Author Contribution
DLD: designed and executed the study, collaborated to data analyses, wrote and translate the final manuscript. LM: collaborated with the design of the study and the development of the virtual coach and the Routine Achievement Assessment Tool and collaborated in the writing of the final manuscript. IS: collaborated in the execution of the study and data analyses. YL: collaborated with the design of the study, translation, and the writing of the final manuscript. VGT: was responsible of the development of the virtual coach. AL: analyzed the data and wrote part of the results. All authors approved the final manuscript.

To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens on Human Information Sharing Behavior MARK C. BALLANDIES Department of Computational Social Science, ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland Department of Humanities, Social and Political Sciences, ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland e-mail: bcmark@protonmail.com This work was supported in part by the ETH Library Laboratory. This work involved human subjects or animals in its research. Approval of all ethical and experimental procedures and protocols was granted by the Ethics Committee of ETH Zürich. ABSTRACT Cryptoeconomic incentives in the form of blockchain-based tokens are seen as an enabler of the sharing economy that could shift society towards greater sustainability. Nevertheless, knowledge of the impact of these tokens on human sharing behavior is still limited and this poses a challenge to the design of effective cryptoeconomic incentives. This study applies the theory of self-determination to investigate the impact of such tokens on human behavior in an information-sharing scenario. By utilizing an experimental methodology in the form of a randomized control trial with a 2 × 2 factorial design involving 132 participants, the effects of two token incentives on human information-sharing behavior are analyzed. Individuals obtain these tokens in exchange for their shared information. Based on the collected tokens, individuals receive a monetary payment and build reputation. Besides investigating the effect of these incentives on the quantity of shared information, the study includes quality characteristics of the information, such as accuracy and contextualization. The focus on quantity while excluding quality has been identified as a limitation in previous work. In addition to confirming previously known effects such as a crowding-out of intrinsic motivation by incentives, which also exists for blockchain-based tokens, the findings of this paper point to a hitherto unreported interaction effect between multiple tokens when applied simultaneously. The findings are critically discussed and put into the context of recent work and ethical considerations. The theory-basedempirical study is of interest to those investigating the effect of cryptoeconomic tokens or digital currencies on human behavior and supports the community in the design of effective personalized incentives for sharing economies. INDEX TERMS Blockchain, cryptoeconomics, distributed ledger technology, incentives, information sharing, self-determination theory, token economics, token engineering. I. INTRODUCTION Cryptoeconomic incentives in the form of blockchain-based tokens are seen as an enabler of the sharing economy [1], [2] that could shift society toward greater sustainability [3], [4]. One of the resources that is shared in these economies is information [5]–[7], which due to its The associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript and approving it for publication was Mehdi Sookhak . growing utilization in data-intensive technologies [8] is becoming increasingly important [9], [10]. This has resulted in the collection of large data sets by organizations [11]. Nevertheless, in this age of vast data quantities, obtaining high-quality information is a challenge [11], [12] (e.g. the accuracy of the collected data is low). Moreover, because organizations collect massive amounts of unstructured data, such as customer behavior (product choices and sleeping patterns), opinions (e.g. Facebook likes), medical health VOLUME 10, 2022 This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ 74111 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens records, or IoT data, the amount of data collected exceeds the processing power available to analyze it [13], possibly resulting in sampling biases. Furthermore, these ‘‘Big Data’’ approaches often involve the danger of collapsing the complexity of entire human personalities into assumptions constructed from simple data (e.g. website clicks) and usually miss the unique domain-specific knowledge users have [14]. Thus, it has been suggested that information providers should structure their input in a contextualized way when sharing their data, utilizing semantic web technologies [15], such as linked data and ontologies [16], [17], and evaluate the quality of information shared by other providers [18]. Nevertheless, as this would require additional effort on the part of the information providers [18], incentives such as gamification [19], reputation [20], money [21], or auctions [22] are suggested to motivate the data providers and thus improve the characteristics of the collected information. However, previous work on the incentivization of information sharing focuses on the quantity of collected information while excluding quality characteristics such as accuracy or contextualization [23]. Increasingly, cyrptoeconomic incentives in the form of blockchain-based tokens are proposed to be awarded to participants of information-sharing communities [24]–[28]. In these studies, the performance of the applied incentives is investigated using simulations [29], game-theoretical methodologies [30], and case studies [31]. Nonetheless, behavioral data of users in comparison with treatment groups with and without incentivization have not been collected, which limits these approaches as the utilized models cannot be calibrated with real-world data [32]. Controlled experiments are therefore required that investigate the impact of these cryptoeconomic incentives on humans informationsharing behavior. In particular, such an empirical approach could assess and validate the accuracy of the utilized theoretical models [1]. Likewise, although the application of multiple token incentives has been proposed to improve the maintenance and sharing of a common resource [31], [33] and has been investigated in games [30] and simulations [34], the impact of simultaneously applying these incentives has not been investigated empirically in a controlled experiment. This paper addresses these identified gaps with the following research question: ‘‘What is the effect of multiple blockchain-based tokens on human information-sharing behavior measured in the quantity, accuracy, and contextualization of the shared information?’’ By testing hypotheses that are informed from selfdetermination theory [35], [36] with an experimental methodology in the form of a randomized control trial utilizing a 2 × 2 factorial design, the impact of two types of cryptoeconomic incentives in the form of blockchain-based tokens on the information-sharing behavior of humans is investigated. The contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows: • A conceptual impact model (Figure 1) links cryptoeconomic incentives to human motivation and information-sharing behavior in consideration of selfdetermination theory [35], [36]. • The living lab experimental methodology [37] is augmented with a 2 × 2 factorial design to investigate the impacts of blockchain-based cryptoeconomic incentives on human information-sharing behavior. • Four effects of cryptoeconomic tokens on human behavior are identified: i) a hitherto unreported interaction effect between two types of cryptoeconomic tokens when applied simultaneously; ii) an internalization effect of cryptoeconomic tokens in the form of improved information-sharing behavior even after the incentivization period has ended; iii) a crowding-out effect on intrinsic motivation when cryptoeconomic tokens are applied; iv) a time effect resulting in a variation of the impact of cryptoeconomic incentivization over time. • A novel high-quality dataset illustrates user informationsharing behavior under multiple token incentives that facilitates causal inferences about human behavior under cryptoeconomic incentivization. • The work demonstrates how self determination theory can be applied in the formulation of hypotheses and testing in Token Engineering and Token Economics. • The implications of the findings for the design and engineering of one-dimensional and multi-dimensional token systems are discussed critically, taking into account ethical impacts. Since these contributions inform an improved construction of blockchain-based incentives, they are of relevance for the community, which is increasingly utilizing and investigating such incentives in various application domains [38]–[40]. This paper is structured as follows: In Section II, related work in information sharing is discussed. The research methodology is introduced in Section III, while Section IV presents the evaluation. Section V summarizes the findings and discusses their implications. Finally, Section VI draws the conclusion and provides an outlook for future work. II. RELATED WORK IN INFORMATION SHARING A. SELF-DETERMINATION THEORY AND INCENTIVES Humans are intrinsically and extrinsically motivated to share information [41]. Intrinsic motivation refers to when people perform a task such as information sharing out of the pleasure they derive from the task itself, whereas extrinsic motivation stems from incentives, such as monetary payments, reputation gains, or punishments. When compared to extrinsic motivation for a specific task, intrinsic motivation leads to enhanced performance, persistence, creativity, learning capacity, and endurance in humans [36] and may therefore be more important than extrinsic motivation for specific scenarios such as contributing computer code [42] or sharing information [43]. Introduced by Deci and Ryan [35], [44], self-determination theory illustrates the conditions under which humans are 74112 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens FIGURE 1. Impact of incentives (money/access/reputation) on motivation (intrinsic/extrinsic) and information-sharing behavior (quality/quantity). Impacts (arrows) are derived from related work (in parentheses). intrinsically motivated to work on a task: Three innate psychological needs must be satisfied: ‘‘competence’’, ‘‘autonomy’’ and ‘‘relatedness’’. In particular, a feeling of competence does not enhance intrinsic motivation unless accompanied by a sense of autonomy [36], [45]. In this context, applying misaligned incentives may infringe on the perceived autonomy of humans and thereby reduce their intrinsic motivation [46]; this is referred to as crowding-out effect [41]. However, competence-enhancing incentives may support intrinsic motivation [35], [46] and this is referred to as internalization [35]. Figure 1 illustrates findings from literature about the dependencies between different types of incentives, the two types of motivation, and their impact on characteristics of information. Extrinsic and intrinsic motivation are not separate systems, but influence each other [46]. Extrinsic motivation can be integrated to become intrinsic motivation (Arrow I in Figure 1) [35]. People are extrinsically motivated to share a higher quantity of information by money [37], [47], the access to the collected information [47], [48], reputation [47], and their intrinsic motivation [47] (Arrows II and VII in Figure 1). In particular, the strongest increase in quantity is observed for money, followed by the access to information, reputation, and then intrinsic motivation [47]. In contrast to quantity, it has been observed that the quality of shared information remains unaffected under monetary incentives when mesasuring it in terms of the prediction accuracy of stock recommendations [49] or is even worse than before incentivization when meassured by a word count index [50], or useability (helpfulness of reviews) [50], or quality of produced images [51] (Arrow III in Figure 1). It has been found that monetary incentives decrease intrinsic motivation (Arrow IV in Figure 1), while they increase extrinsic motivation (Arrow V in Figure 1) [45], [52], [53], which might explain the impact of monetary incentives on quality: As intrinsic motivation has been observed to predict quality (Arrow VI in Figure 1 ) [42], [54] and only to a lesser extent quantity (Arrow VII in Figure 1) [47], whereas extrinsic motivation predicts the quantity of shared information (Arrow VIII in Figure 1) [54], the use of monetary incentives would result in an increased extrinsic motivation and decreased intrinsic motivation, thereby leading to a higher quantity but lower quality of shared information. In contrast to monetary incentives, because they may enhance an individuals feeling of competence [35], [46], VOLUME 10, 2022 74113 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens reputation systems impact extrinsic motivation positively [55], while also having a positive impact on intrinsic motivation [56] (Arrows IX and X in Figure 1). Moreover, it has been found that rewarding each information-sharing action is more effective than summarized payments [57], and that small subgroups have shown moderate to strong aversion to incentives [58], which has been confirmed by Pournaras et al. [37]. B. TOKENS FOR INFORMATION SHARING Cryptoeconomic incentives in the form of blockchain-based tokens span a multi-dimensional incentive system [33] enabling a differentiated pricing of a broader spectrum of externalities [33], [63]. This can result in the improved self-organization of society when compared to one-dimensional incentive systems such as the current monetary system [64], [65]. These tokens are defined as a ‘‘a unit of value issued within a DLT system [or blockchain system] and which can be used as a medium of exchange or unit of account’’ [66] and are increasingly utilized in communities to encourage the sharing of information. Table 1 illustrates related work that utilizes blockchainbased tokens in information-sharing scenarios. All of these works contribute a conceptual framework about blockchain and tokens and how they can be applied to improve the information sharing in a community (Column Fram. in Table 1). Four of these frameworks are implemented in a software artifact (Column Impl. in Table 1): Naz et al. [28] implement a software artifact that integrates IPFS1 with a blockchain to improve the quality of shared data by incentivizing stakeholders with tokens to review the shared information. Similarly, Hunhevicz et al. [31] use tokens to incentivize high-quality datasets in a construction process by awarding those that provide complete and accurate information. Zhang et al. [61] use tokens in their prototype to incentivize the provision of credit data. Finally, Jaiman et al. [62] utilize tokens as representations of ownership and access rights to data sets. Two of these implementations are evaluated in simulations (ID 4 and 10 in Table 1). Moreover, three of the proposed concepts that are not implemented in a software artifact are tested in simulations (Column Sim.; ID 3, 5 and 11 in Table 1). Hülsemann and Tumasjan [59] apply an agent-based modeling approach to investigate three different types of tokens. Likewise, ImaniMehr and DehghanTakhtFooladi [30] investigate with a simulation the application of multiple tokens to incentivize the optimal utilization of video stream layers. Moreover, they analytically investigate their scenario with methods from game theory (Column Anly. in Table 1). Similarly, Jung et al. [27] utilize both methods from game theory/mechanism design as well as simulations to evaluate their framework that improves the provision and maintenance of patient health records. Hunhevicz et al. [31] evaluate their framework and implementation with stakeholders in 1 Inter Plenatary File System, a peer-to-peer protocol for exchanging files: https://ipfs.io/ (last accessed 2022-02-07) a workshop (Column Work.; ID 7 in Table 1). Three frameworks are not evaluated (ID 1, 2 and 6 in Table 1). By utilizing tokens in their frameworks and implementations, only two of the contributions investigate the implications of introduced tokens on system properties (Column Imp.; ID 3 and 5 in Table 1). Moreover, only one of the contributions illustrates the token design (Column Des.; ID 10 in Table 1): The token is a modified ERC-721 token that has a source of value of ownership/access rights to data, its supply is uncapped and the token is transferable. Nevertheless, a standard illustration as utilized by Dobler et al. [67], Ballandies et al. [68] that would make different designs comparable has not been applied. Moreover, the impact of a specific token design on user information-sharing behavior is not rigorously investigated with a controlled experiment (Column Exp. in Table 1). Assumptions thus have to be utilized in the above-mentioned simulations and analysis that limit the applicability of the findings to real-world scenarios. Two of the works utilize multiple tokens in their application scenario (Column Mult.; ID 1 and 5 in Table 1): Pazaitis et al. [1] enable the setup of multiple tokens to capture the value created in different decentralised communities, and ImaniMehr and DehghanTakhtFooladi [30] use multiple tokens for optimal sharing of bandwidth. Finally, despite touching on sensitive applications domains such as health or credit data, only one of the works discusses the ethical implications of their contributions and findings (Column Ethics; ID 1 in Table II). This paper (ID 12 in Table 1) addresses these limitations by evaluating the impact of two cryptoeconomic incentives on human information-sharing behavior in a controlled experiment involving 132 participants over four days (Section IV). The utilized token designs are illustrated (Section III-A3) and the (ethical) implications (Section V) of this work are discussed. III. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY The impact of two token incentives on human informationsharing behavior is investigated with an experimental methodology. The conducted experiment is explained below (Section III-A), followed by the measured variables (Section III-B), tested hypotheses (Section III-C) and the analysis methods (Section III-D). A. EXPERIMENT The experiment has been conducted by modifying the mixedmode ‘‘living lab’’ [37] experimental methodology such that the randomized control trial is augmented with a 2 × 2 factorial pre-test/post-test design that utilizes two token incentives (Figure 8). The experiment consists of three phases (Figure 8): The entry and exit phase is facilitated by the ETH Decision Science Laboratory2 (DeSciL) of ETH Zurich, using their 2ETH Decision Science Laboratory provides infrastructures and services for researchers to perform human subject trials in the intersecting areas of Decision and Behavioral Sciences: https://www.descil.ethz.ch/ (last accessed: 2022-03-11) 74114 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens TABLE 1. Related work that studies blockchain technology and tokens to improve information sharing. Frame: Famework; Impl.: Implemenation; Sim.: Simulation; Anly.: Analytical; Exp.: Experiment; Mult.: Multiple; Des.: Design; Imp.: Implication. FIGURE 2. Experiment scenario: Participants share information with a library institution and obtain blockchain-based tokens in return. Tokens collected by other users can be discovered in interactions. infrastructure and staff. The core phase is facilitated by the research team and a blockchain-based Web 3.0 application (Section III-A4). In the entry phase, participants provide their consent to the study and are instructed on the application of the software used in the core phase. Before the core phase, the participants answer an entry survey consisting of demographic questions. The core phase of the experiment consists of four days in which participants utilize the software artifact to share information. On the second and third day of the core phase, in exchange for their shared information participants obtain token rewards. In the exit phase, participants answer an exit survey and receive their financial compensation. The conducted experiment was granted an ethical approval by the Decision Science Laboratory (DeSciL) as well as the Ethics Commission of ETH Zurich. FIGURE 3. Treatment groups in the 2 × 2 factorial design experiment vary according to the received token incentive: N = no token incentives; C = context token incentive; M = money token incentive; B = both token incentives. In the following, Section III-A1 illustrates the real-world information-sharing scenario of the core phase, followed by Section III-A2, where the model of the collected data is introduced. Section III-A3 illustrates the applied incentives and the treatment groups. Then, Section III-A4 provides the technical specifications of the utilized software artifact. Finally, Section III-A5 provides an overview of the recruitment process and the compensation paid to the participants. 1) SCENARIO The scenario of the experiment has been illustrated by Ballandies et al. [15]. A summary is given in the following and depicted in Figure 2: Participants of the experiment share solicited information via their personal devices (e.g. laptop or mobile phone) with an organization, using a Web 3.0 application (Section III-A4). In order to facilitate a realistic setup of the experiment and to comply with the VOLUME 10, 2022 74115 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens FIGURE 4. Data model of the experiment that visualizes the stakeholders (library organization and its customers), collected information, survey questions, and token incentives. anti-deception policy of DeSciL,2 the shared information is received by a real-world library organization that has an interest in obtaining feedback from customers and unawarecustomers3 of their services. Furthermore, in order to study user behavior in a realistic setting, participants can choose the time of feedback provision such that it is best integrated into their daily routines. As an incentive for sharing information with the library organization, participants receive units of two types of blockchain-based tokens (Section III-A3). The amount of token units collected by other users and a subset of their shared information can be discovered in interactions. The model of the shared information is illustrated in Section III-A2. 2) DATA MODEL Figure 4 illustrates the ecosystem of the collected information as an ontology [69]. The library formulated 274 survey questions, which they wanted to ask customers and unaware-customers of their services. These questions are of one of the following types: single-choice, multiplechoice, Likert scale, open text, or a combination of thereof. In the experiment, participants take the role of customers and share information with the library in the form of answers to the given questions. Participants have the option to enrich their answer to a question with three types of contextualizations (Figure 6). They can state from their perspective how important the question is for the library to improve their services (Likert scale), how satisfied they are with the answer options to the question (Likert scale), and provide a comment (open text field). As an incentive to share information, participants obtain units of two types of cryptoeconomic incentives: Money token and Context token, which are illustrated in greater detail in Section III-A3. 3) INCENTIVES AND TREATMENT GROUPS Two types of cryptoeconomic incentives are utilized in this paper: The money token is a stable coin [70] that resembles 3Unaware-customers are defined by the library as customers who are not aware that they are customers of the library. For instance, researchers accessing closed-access journals via their university credentials for which the library pays the Swiss fiat currency. It is a capped, pre-mined, transferable, and non-burnable ERC-20 token whose units are pegged to the Swiss franc at an exchange rate of 1:0.2 CHF. Users obtain a unit of this token whenever they provide an answer to a survey question (Figure 4). The context token is a utility token [66] and models reputation in the system: It is a ERC-20 token that is uncapped, transferable, burnable, and not pre-mined. A token unit is created whenever a contextualization (Figure 4) is performed in the system and is awarded to the user who provided that information. The amount of context token units collected is visible to others on a leaderboard during the experiment (Figure 5) and thus constructs users’ reputation, which functions as a source of value to this token. In particular, reputation is a widely adopted incentive mechanism that has been utilized to improve the quality of shared data [21]. Additionally, the context token can be utilized to access a privileged service in the form of voting actions [15], which further provides value to the token [21]. Figure 3 illustrates the 2 × 2 factorial design of the study, whereby the two token types awarded to experiment participants are varied: Group N is the control group that receives no token incentives; Group C obtains the context token; Group M obtains the money token; Group B obtains both, the money and the context token. 4) TECHNICAL INFRASTRUCTURE This research applies the customer feedback system developed by Ballandies et al. [15] to enable users to share information with a library organization and to receive two cryptoeconomic incentives (Section III-A3) in exchange. The software artifact is a Web 3.0 app that utilizes the Finance 4.0 infrastructure [64] and the Ethereum4 (ETH) blockchain. It enables the collection of solicited and unsolicited feedback from users of an organization. Figure 6 illustrates how users can provide solicited feedback by answering questions posed by an organization. This feedback can be contextualized by i) stating the importance of the question to improve 4https://ethereum.org/en/ (last accessed: 2022-03-21) 74116 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens FIGURE 5. Statistics view of the utilized software artifact. It depicts the amount of context token and money token units collected by a user (above). Moreover, the software artifact shows the leaderboard that compares users based on the collected context token units (below). FIGURE 6. Answer view of the utilized software artifact: Users can answer questions posed by the library and contextualize it with three contextualization options (importance, satisfaction, and comment). the organization’s service (bottom left in Figure 6), or ii) stating the satisfaction with the answer options to the question (bottom center in Figure 6), or iii) providing further feedback via a comment field (bottom right in Figure 6). Figure 7 depicts how users can contextualize an answer with their satisfaction regarding the answer options. Figure 5 shows how reputation is facilitated in the system by comparing users based on the amount of collected context token units. Moreover, this view gives users an overview of their collected money and context token units. FIGURE 7. View of the satisfaction contextualization (Figure 6). Users can specify how satisfied they are with the answer options provided for a question. 5) RECRUITMENT, COMPENSATION, AND ETHICAL APPROVAL The participants were recruited by the ETH Decision Science Laboratory2 (DeSciL), who, following their protocols and ethical standards, were guaranteed fair compensation, and information regarding participants’ identity was separated from the experiment data, thereby enabling anonymity for the participants. 150 participants were recruited, 132 of which completed the exit phase (88% completion rate), which is a reasonable number that balances resources (compensation/infrastructure), rigor, and control of the experimental VOLUME 10, 2022 74117 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens process [37]. In particular, the mixed-mode experimental process preserves the realism of the scenario by involving a real-world organization that obtains the shared information, while facilitating controlled experimental conditions that result in a novel high-quality dataset to allow (causal) inferences about human behavior under cryptoeconomic incentivization. Participants were recruited from the full UAST5 pool (no criterion was applied), which mainly consists of students and researchers of ETH Zurich and the University of Zurich, and thus is subject to sampling biases when making inferences about the behavior of the general population. Nevertheless, as these are exactly the customers and unaware-customers of the real-world library organization around which the use case of information collection in this experiment was constructed, the participants’ profiles match well to the experimental scenario. Consequently, the findings may be transferable to similar scenarios, where customers share information with an organization. Four recruitment sessions were performed within the period from May 17, 2021 to June 11, 2021. The DeSciL requires the fair minimum and avarage compensation of experiment participants. This is satisfied by compensating each participant i of a treatment group (N,C, M, B in Figure 3) Swiss francs via one of the following payout formulas p: p(Mi) = min 60 CHF, MT(Mi) × 0.2 CHF p(Bi) = min 60 CHF, MT(Bi) × 0.2 CHF p(Ni) = max 20 CHF, T − P N(C) + N(B)  p(Ci) = max 20 CHF, T − P N(C) + N(B)  (1) where, MT(i) : amount of collected money token units of participant i, T = N × 40 CHF;total available payout P = N X (M) i p(Mi) + N X (B) i p(Bi);total received payout by groups M and B N : number of participants N(j) : number of participants in treatment group j (2) This results in a minimum compensation of 20 CHF and an average compensation of 40 CHF (0.5 CHF/min) for the participants. The payout for participants of treatment groups that received the money token (groups M and B in Figure 3) depends on the amount of money token units collected. This amount is multiplied by 0.20 CHF and then awarded to the participants. The total payout is capped at 60 CHF per participant resulting in a maximum of 150 questions for which a user can be rewarded per day. The payout for participants of the other treatment groups (groups N and C 5https://www.uast.uzh.ch/ (last accessed: 2021-12-01) in Figure 3) depend on the payout of the treatment groups that receive the money token (groups M and B in Figure 3), such that the average compensation over all experiment participants is 40 CHF. B. VARIABLES AND MEASURES Figure 8 illustrates the measured variables of this paper in the three phases of the experiment. The participants answered demographic questions in the entry phase and another survey in the exit phase. Two extrinsic incentives, the money token, and the context token (Section III-A3) are manipulated as independent variables on the second and third day of the core phase. Several dependent variables are measured each day: The quantity of shared information is measured by the number of replies to survey questions. Moreover, two quality characteristics are measured: i) Contextualization is the number of contextualization actions performed by participants in response survey questions (via the bottom buttons in Figure 6 as shown in Section III-A4). This is the amount of ‘‘metadata’’ that a user provides with an answer that contributes to the usability of information and is considered a quality dimension of information [11]. Further, ii) accuracy is a quality element of information that contributes to the reliability of information [11]. Applying the methodology of estimating choice variability [71], [72], accuracy is operationalized in this paper as follows: With equal probability, survey questions are displayed more than once to participants. The average accuracy with which a participant answers a specific question is then calculated by taking the Jaccard similarity [73] between the answers provided to that question. The final accuracy for a user is then obtained by taking the average similarity over all questions and days. C. HYPOTHESES The hypotheses of this paper test five assumptions regarding the utilized token incentives (Section III-A3) and treatment group assembly. They are formulated by connecting these assumptions to the introduced conceptual impact model (Figure 1). In the following, the five assumptions are first illustrated (Section III-C1) before the hypotheses are introduced (Section III-C2). 1) ASSUMPTIONS Assumption 1: The money token (stable coin) is perceived as a monetary incentive and thus has a similar impact on the human information-sharing behavior as money. The money token utilized in the experiment is a stable coin that has a fixed exchange rate with the Swiss franc (Section III-A3) and thus resembles fiat money. The impact of fiat money on human behavior has been studied in information-sharing scenarios of related work (Section II). Due to this resemblance, it is hypothesized that the money token has a similar impact on human motivation and information-sharing behavior as monetary incentives. In particular, the money token impacts the extrinsic motivation 74118 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens positively and the intrinsic motivation negatively such that the quantity of shared information is increased and the quality is decreased, as illustrated in Figure 1. Assumption 2: The context token impacts intrinsic motivation positively. The context token is a utility token that has reputation as its source of value (Section III-A3) and it is thus hypothesized that it is perceived as a competence-enhancing incentive [46] that increases the intrinsic motivation of individuals. Assumption 3: The context token impacts extrinsic motivation positively. Since the context token shares some characteristics with money (it is transferable and collectible), it is hypothesized that it has a positive impact on extrinsic motivation, albeit to a lower extend when compared to the money token. Assumption 4: No interaction exists between the money and the context token. It is assumed that no interaction between the money and context token exists when they are applied simultaneously. Assumption 5: No bias exists in the assembly of the treatment groups. It is assumed that each treatment group consists of a similar participant structure. These assumptions are the basis for the hypotheses that are formulated in the following. 2) HYPTOHESES FORMULATION In order to formulate the hypotheses, the assumptions (Section III-C1) are linked to the conceptual impact model (Figure 1): Under the assumption of no biases in the assembly of the treatment groups (Assumption 5), it is hypothesized on Day 1 of the experiment that no difference in behavior among the treatment groups measured in quantity of answers or contextualizations are observed, because no token incentives are applied on that day: Hypothesis 1: Day 1: quantity(M) = quantity(C) = quantity(N) = quantity(B) Hypothesis 2: Day 1: context(C) = context(N) = context(M) = context(B) Due to the impact on extrinsic motivation (Assumptions 1 and 3), it is hypothesized from the arguments above that the M group (money token incentives) shares a greater quantity of information during incentivization days when compared to to the C group (context token incentive), which in turn shares more information than the N group (control group). Moreover, under the assumption of no interactions (Assumption 4) and because both tokens contribute to extrinsic motivation (Assumptions 1 and 3), it is hypothesized that the B group (both token incentives) shares more information than the M group. Thus for Days 2 and 3, when incentives are applied, the following hypothesis is posed: Hypothesis 3: Days 2 & 3: quantity(B) > quantity(M) > quantity(C) > quantity(N) Also, it is hypothesized that because of the competenceenhancing effect of the context token that would increase the intrinsic motivation of individuals (Assumption 2), the C group shares information with greater quality characteristics such as contextualization or accuracy when compared to the N group. Moreover, because of the negative impact of the money token on intrinsic motivation (Assumptions 1), the M groups quality characteristics are hypothesized to be worse than those of the N group. Finally, because i) the context token offsets the negative impact of the money token on intrinsic motivation (Assumptions 1 and 2), and ii) there is no interaction effect between the tokens (Assumption 4), it is hypothesized that the B group shares information with equal quality when compared to the N group, but less than the C group. Thus for Day 2 and 3, when incentives are applied, the following hypotheses are stated: Hypothesis 4: Days 2 & 3: context(C) > context(B) = context(N) > context(M) Since no incentives are applied on the fourth day of the experiment, only the intrinsic motivation of individuals affects the characteristics of shared information on that day (Figure 1). Thus, because it is assumed that the money token decreased (Assumption 1) while the context token incentive increased (Assumption 2) the intrinsic motivation, it is hypothesized that for the quality characteristics the C group outperforms the N group, which in turn outperforms the M group. Moreover, the N group and B group share an equal number of contextualizations: Hypothesis 5: Day 4: context(C) > context(N) = context(B) > context(M) In contrast, because intrinsic motivation only plays a minor role for the quantity of shared information (Figure 1), it is hypothesized that the number of answers given on Day 4 does not differ significantly between the groups: Hypothesis 6: Day 4: quantity(M) = quantity(C) = quantity(N) = quantity(B) The accuracy is measured over all four days. Consequently, a hypothesis about the daily differences among the groups cannot be drawn. Accuracy is a quality characteristic (Section III-B). Quality has been found to be positively impacted by intrinsic motivation (Section II). Thus, it is hypothesized that the averaged accuracy score of the C group is higher than that of N group, which in turn has a higher score than the M group. Moreover, because the context token offsets the negative impact of the money token on intrinsic motivation, the N and B groups have a similar accuracy: Hypothesis 7: All days: accuracy(C) > accuracy (N) = accuracy(B) > accuracy (M) D. ANALYSIS METHODS Figure 8 illustrates the methods that are applied to evaluate the hypotheses. The demographic information from the entry survey in the entry phase is utilized to illustrate the profiles of participants. Moreover, this information is applied in chisquared (χ 2 ) tests [74] to validate that no treatment group biases are present. In particular, the test is employed to test the null hypothesis that no relationship exists on the demographic variables among the treatment groups. Survey VOLUME 10, 2022 74119 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens FIGURE 8. Measured variables in the three phases of the experiment and the applied analysis methods. responses from the exit survey are used to validate the experimental setup such as the rewards obtained by the participants. Histograms, qqplots, the Shapiro-Wilk test [75], [76] and the D’Agostiono Pearson test [77], [78] are used to investigate the distribution of the dependent variables. In order to analyze treatment group differences, the KruskalWallis one-way analysis of variance by ranks for independent samples (H-test) is utilized [79] and, for a post-hoc pairwise comparisons test of mean rank sums, the Conover-Iman [80] and the Dunn [81] methods are applied. Furthermore, CDF plots are utilized to investigate differences in group behavior. The treatment effect of the applied incentives and the interaction effect among the incentives are analyzed via interaction plots. IV. RESULTS A. DEMOGRAPHICS/WWWWW/PROFILES OF THE PARTICIPANTS 150 candidates were invited to participate in the study, 132 of which completed all three phases (entry, core, and exit phase in Figure 8). The average age of the participants was 23.2 years. 62 were male, 68 were female and 2 did not specify their gender. 36 users had used blockchain/crypto apps before the experiment (50% 1-6 month, 16.6% 6-12 month, 16.6% 1-2 years, 16.6 % > 2 years). 65 participants were bachelor students, 56 were master students, and 11 were ‘‘other’’. 54.5 % of the participants stated that they were active users of the services of the library that functioned as a use case for the living lab experiment methodology. B. TREATMENT GROUPS BIASES, EXPERIMENT VALIDATION, AND DEPENDENT VARIABLE DISTRIBUTION Table 2 depicts the results of the chi-squared (χ 2 ) test for the demographic questions and the treatment/wave per treatment group/recruitment wave. Neither in the treatment group construction nor in the recruitment waves are biases identified. 74120 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens TABLE 2. Results of the chi-squared (χ 2) test for the eight demographic questions and the treatment/wave grouping per treatment group/recruitment wave illustrating that no bias is identified in the construction of the groups or the recruitment waves. TABLE 3. p-values obtained from the normality test of dependent variables per day/over all days and treatment group. p-values ≥ 0.05 indicate normal distributions (marked with an asterisk). On average, the participants found the rewards fair (2.6/4)6 and the onboarding materials useful (2.8/4). In particular, it has been identified in earlier work that learning how to utilize the web application is perceived as easy by the participants [15]. Thus, the chosen compensation fulfilled the requirements of DeSciL2 and the chosen 6Evaluated on a 5-point likert scale technology in the form of a blockchain-based Web application did not restrict users in participating in information sharing. Table 3 illustrates the distributions of the dependent variables utilized in the analysis. In the majority of cases, these variables are non-normally distributed, thus requiring the Kruskal-Wallis test that does not assume normally distributed variables to analyze the distribution [79]. C. GROUP DIFFERENCES AND INTERACTION EFFECTS Table 5 depicts the results of the Kruskal-Wallis test applied to the distributions of the dependent variables for each day/over all days of the four treatment groups. Moreover, Table 6 and 7 illustrate the post-hoc analysis that applies the Conover-Iman test for those days which exhibit significant differences in the Kruskal-Wallis analysis. Moreover, Figure 9 depicts the cumulative distribution for each treatment group and Figure 10 shows the interactions among the treatments for the analyzed dependent variables. In the following, the observations for each dependent variable are illustrated in detail. 1) QUANTITY The treatment group behaviors for the quantity variable are significantly different for Day 2 and Day 3 (Table 5). Considering the post-hoc analysis (Table 6), it is possible to determine that for both days, all treatment group pairs are significantly different, except for the B-M (both token incentives-money token incentive) pair. The CDF plot illustrates this observation (Figure 9): The M and B groups have a similar higher probability to provide more answers when compared to the C (context token incentive) and N (control group) groups (in this order). Moreover, M and B distributions show two peaks, one around 60 answers and one around 150 answers, the latter being the maximum number of answers for which a payment is received on a given day VOLUME 10, 2022 74121 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens FIGURE 9. Cumulative density plots for the treatments of the dependent variables over the four days/all days. The plot illustrates the cumulative percentage of users who reach an equal or lower value of the variable. (Section III-A3). These peaks are more clear visible on Day 3 and are stronger for the B group when compared to the M group. Moreover, the CDF plot for Day 3 (Figure 9c) indicates a tendency for money token receivers to answer a higher number of questions. The plots in Figure 10 illustrate the median interaction effects. Similarily to the Kruskal-Wallis test, on Day 1 and Day 4 no effect of the incentives are identified (Figure 10a and 10d). On days 2 and 3 (Figure 10b and 10c), both incentives result in an increase of questions answered when compared to the control group, whereby the money token leads to a considerably stronger increase than the context token. Moreover, at Day 3 an interaction is observed: When compared to the money group, the context token dampens the effect of the money token in the B group resulting in fewer questions answered. 2) CONTEXTUALIZATION In contrast to quantity, the treatment group behaviors are significantly different for all four days (Table 6). The interaction plot on Day 1 (Figure 10e) illustrates how the context token treatment resulted in a higher number of contextualizations. The CDF plot on Day 1 (Figure 9e) depicts a similar distribution of the treatment groups with a higher tendency of the context group to provide more contextualizations. On Day 2, all groups except the M-N pair are significantly different (Table 6). Nevertheless, on Day 3 no differences between the B-N and B-M pairs are observed any longer. An opposing trend is observed in the M-N and B-C pairs where the p-values become smaller over the two days (Table 6). The CDF plots for Day 2 and 3 (Figure 9f and 9g) illustrate these trends: On Day 2, the B group distribution 74122 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens FIGURE 10. Interaction plots among the treatments for the dependent variables over the four days/all days. The minus indicates that the token has not been applied, whereas the plus indicates an utilization of tokens. Thus, the dashed line connects the treatment groups that utilized the context token (left: treatment with context token; right: treatment with both tokens). The solid line connects the treatment groups that did not utilize the context token (left: treatment with no tokens (control group); right: treatment with money token). is close to the C distribution. Nevertheless, on Day 3 it more closely resembles the M group distribution, where most individuals provide few contextualizations and few individuals many. Moreover, the difference between the M and N groups becomes stronger for individuals that provide few contextualizations. The interaction plots for Day 2 and day 3 (Figure 10f and 10g) illustrate an interaction effect between the money and context token resulting in fewer contextualizations when compared to the context token alone. In contrast to the money token, no trend in the interaction is observed over the four days. After removing the incentives on Day 4, the pairs B-C and C-M and M-N show a significantly different behavior (Table 6). This is in contrast to the observation for the quantity variable, where no distinct behavior on Day 4 is identified. No significant difference between treatments with the context token and the control group is identified. The CDF plot for Day 4 (Figure 9h) illustrates the similarity between the B-M groups, and respectively between the C-N groups and the difference between each of these pairs. The interaction plot (Figure 10h) illustrates how the C group provides the most contextualizations on Day 4, followed by the control group and then the other two groups. 3) ACCURACY A significant difference among the group behaviors for the accuracy is identified over all four days (Table 5). Table 7 indicates that this difference originates from the pairs B-N and M-N. Nevertheless, the p-values of the pairs B-C and VOLUME 10, 2022 74123 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens TABLE 4. Findings from the Kruskal-Wallis and Conover-Iman posthoc analysis. Light green are those entries marked that accept the hypotheses stated in Section III-C. The following deviations can be explained by adjusting the assumptions of the hypotheses: i - Context token has a negligible effect on intrinsic motivation; ii - Extrinsic motivation has a considerable impact on contextualization; iii - Interaction effects between the tokens are present. M-C are also almost significant (p-value = 0.052). These differences are illustrated in the CDF-plot (Figure 9i) which depicts higher probabilities for the C and N group to reach higher accuracy values when compared to the other two groups. Figure 10i shows that the control group reaches the highest accuracy in their answers, followed by the context, both and money groups. V. DISCUSSION A. RESULTS Table 4 illustrates the findings from the Kruskal-Wallis and post-hoc analysis with regard to the hypotheses (Section III-C2). The results inform an adjustment to the assumptions (Section III-C1) that were utilized in the formulation of these hypotheses: I) It was assumed that the context token has a positive impact on both the intrinsic and extrinsic motivation (Assumption 2 and 3 in Section III-C). Yet, the findings provide evidence that this token has overall only a small positive or negligible impact on intrinsic motivation. This would explain the parity of the C group and N group for the context characteristic on Day 4 (ID 8/Column b in Table 4): No incentives are applied on that day, thus the extrinsic motivation is equally zero for both groups and only the intrinsic motivation defines the contextualization behavior. However, the median number of contextualizations on Day 4 (Figure 10h) is higher for the C group when compared to the N group indicating a small positive impact that is also illustrated by the CDF plot (Figure 9h). The neglible impact is also illustrated in the parity between the B and M group on Day 4 (ID 8/Column d in Table 4). The money token reduced the intrinsic motivation in both groups and because the context token did not offset this negative impact, it is the same for both groups on Day 4. Moreover, the parity of these pairs for the accuracy characteristic (ID 9/Column b and d in Table 4) can be explained thus: Since accuracy is mainly impacted by intrinsic motivation, which following the previous considerations is equally pronounced between the M and B groups, the group behaviors are equal. It also explains the inequality between the B and N group (ID 9/Column f in Table 4): Since the intrinsic motivation is reduced in the B group due to the money token, and the context token does not have a significant positive impact on intrinsic motivation, the intrinsic motivation in the B group is lower than in the N group and thus the shared information is of lesser accuracy. II) Extrinsic motivation has a considerable impact on the context characteristic. i) This explains the parity between the M and N group for Days 2 and 3 (ID 6,7/Column c in Table 4). Although the intrinsic motivation is reduced due to the money token, it is replaced by the extrinsic motivation stemming from this incentive resulting in a similar contextualization-sharing behavior. Consequently at Day 4, when the incentive is removed, the M group shares fewer contextualizations (ID 8/Column c in Table 4). ii) It also explains the inequality between the B and N group on Day 2 (ID 6/Column f in Table 4). In contrast to the comparison between the M and N group, the context token in the B group adds to the extrinsic motivation such that the decrease in intrinsic motivation is exceeded resulting in a greater motivation to share contextualizations when compared to the N group. iii) Moreover, following the same arguments, it also explains the inequality between the B and M group on Day 2 (ID 6/Column d in Table 4). iv) Finally, it also explains the inequality between the C and N group on Days 2 and 3 (ID 6,7/Column b in Table 4). III) In contrast to Assumption 4, interactions between the money and context token incentive are observed. i) For Day 2, the B group shares more contextualizations than the monetary group (ID 6 Column d in Table 4). Nevertheless, on Day 3 no difference is observed (ID 7 Column d in Table 4), which indicates that over time the two tokens interact with each other, thereby decreasing their impact on the users’ motivation. ii) This might also explain the parity between these groups for the quantity of information shared on Day 2 and 3 (ID 2,3/Column d in Table 4): Both 74124 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens tokens interfere such that their combined impact on users’ motivation does not differ from a single token incentive. Furthermore, the interaction plot (Figure 10) even indicates a lower positive impact of the combined incentives when compared to the single money token incentive. In addition, the plot indicates that this interaction becomes stronger over the four days, which is also illustrated by the CDF plot. iii) This interaction also explains the shift from inequality to equality for the B and N group on Days 2 and 3 (ID 6,7 Column f in Table 4). The findings further provide evidence that the money token crowds out intrinsic motivation. The interaction plots and CDF plots for the accuracy indicate a crowding-out of intrinsic motivation by the context token. Nevertheless, according to the Kruskal-Wallis test and its post-hoc analysis, these latter differences are not significant. In particular, for the number of contextualizations the context token even has a positive impact after incentivization ends, which might be explained by an internalization of the incentive (Section II-A) for this information dimension. Finally, a time effect is present in both, single- and multiple-token scenarios, which indicates that the behavioral change can vary over time. B. IMPLICATIONS 1) ONE-DIMENSIONAL TOKEN SYSTEMS The internalization effect of the context token on contextualization actions after incentivization ends illustrates a potential advantage of blockchain-based cryptoeconomic incentives when compared to traditional approaches utilizing monetary incentives. The intrinsic motivation of users might be impacted positively by internalizing these incentives (Section II-A), thus resulting in an improvement of performance measured in the amount of contextualizations provided, even after the incentivization period ends. However, the findings also indicate that this utility token induces a worse performance in the accuracy of shared data when compared to the control group (Figure 9i and 10i). Therefore, the identified internalization might be limited to information dimensions that are directly incentivized by a utility token. Moreover, the findings indicate that stable coins such as the utilized money token crowd out intrinsic motivation, which resulted in this work in a reduction of information quality measured in accuracy and contextualization. In order to design effective incentives, future work should evaluate the token designs and scenarios under which internalization or crowding-out are observed. In particular, as internalization or crowding-out can vary between different performance measures (e.g. contextualization and accuracy), one is advised to carefully evaluate all impacts a token might have before using it in real-world applications. 2) MULTI-DIMENSIONAL TOKEN SYSTEMS The findings provide evidence that applying multiple token-based incentives simultaneously can result in a combined improvement of several information characteristics (e.g., as shown for quantity and contextualization) and could therefore improve system performance when compared to a scenario where a single token is utilized. Nevertheless, the identified interaction effect between the two tokens of this paper indicates that designing multi-token systems is a non-trivial task that has implications for systems in which the application of multiple tokens is considered. In particular, positive and negative impacts of tokens on human behavior may not simply add up. The findings also show that these effects may only become apparent over time. Thus, it is necessary to carefully analyze the interdependencies between combinations of tokens in longitudinal studies before they are utilized in real-world systems. The results of simulations and formal analyses of multi-dimensional token systems are limited if they do not consider these token interactions. 3) (ETHICAL) RISKS Considering the observation, that the current big data paradigm is not challenged by a lack of data [13], but contextualized and accurate information, the findings of this paper raise the question if incentives in the form of blockchain-based tokens should be applied at all to motivate individuals of communities to share information. Such incentives may result in a further increase in quantity of collected information while reducing its quality (e.g. accuracy). However, incentives might work differently in data-sharing scenarios where the quality of shared data under different incentivizations is determined by decisions users take a priori, which are then posteriori executed by an artificial intelligence, as studied by Pournaras et al. [82], Asikis and Pournaras [83] with a computational methodology for privacy-utility decisions. Yet, neither the user acceptance of these decisions nor the impact they have on the trust of users for decision-support systems have been studied. Therefore, unknown effects could be present in these scenarios that bias users’ behavior and which limit the generalizability of findings from such simulations to real-world situations. Furthermore, because users have to perform decisions a priori in these scenarios, such approaches might fail to capture the unique situational domain knowledge users possess or their creativity and intuition which is required for some application domains such as the customer feedback provision analyzed in this paper. Increasingly, token incentives are applied in various application domains of society such as construction [31], health [27], Covid-19 prevention measures [60], electricity production and consumption [32], car sharing [84], [85], alleviating traffic congestion [86], book-keeping [38], decentralized access-control systems [40], or waste reduction [34]. Nevertheless, behavioral traits stemming from intrinsic motivation, such as creativity, joy, self-determination, purpose, and endurance may be important for some of those application domains which could be crowded out by these cryptoeconomic incentives and thus would result in reduced VOLUME 10, 2022 74125 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens TABLE 5. p-values obtained from the Kruskal-Wallis test when comparing the different treatment groups for the five dependent variables. Levels identifying significant differences among the treatment groups distributions: ≤0.001 ***, ≤0.01 **, ≤0.5 *. TABLE 6. Daily p-values of Conover-Iman post-hoc analysis for the significant values of the Kruskal-Wallis test (Table 5) for the quantity and contextualization variables. TABLE 7. p-values of Conover-Iman post-hoc analysis for the significant values of the Kruskal-Wallis test (Table 5) for the accuracy variable over all days. 74126 VOLUME 10, 2022 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens performance. For instance, endurance [87] and creativity [88] have been identified as important factors for addressing climate change. Moreover, this increasing tokenization of areas of life that have not been tokenized before could reduce social relations and human interactions to transactions within a market-driven economy [1]. This might be in opposition to values that stakeholders in these systems hold [1]. In addition, it has been found that the measurement act itself, which is required in tokenization for the quantifying and proving of actions [64], can reduce intrinsic motivation and thus creativity and endurance in individuals [89]. In addition, the identified effects of this work question the assumptions of controversial token systems in the form of social credit systems [90], [91], which are also discussed in Western democracies as tools for managing society [92]: Centrally designing and introducing token incentives may fail due to unkown, crowding-out or interdependent effects that may cascade over time. Considering the large and complex design space of DLT systems [66], an iterative, local, and community-driven approach utilizing the wisdom of crowds and self-organization for token designs as illustrated in Dapp et al. [64] might be the way to proceed in designing stable token systems. In particular, these principles have been found to enable communities to mitigate the tragedy of the commons and successfully share and maintain a common resource [93]. Thus, before applying token incentives in an application scenario, this author suggests rigorously considering the values of all stakeholders in the system construction process and analyzing whether applying such incentives could crowd out intrinsic motivation in the scenario under consideration. Only then should the system be iteratively constructed in scenarios that are locally bound. For this, the methodology of this paper in combination with value-sensitive design [94], [95] and iterative design science research [96], [97] methodologies can be applied, as demonstrated for token-based blockchain systems by Ballandies et al. [15], [68]. 4) LIMITATIONS The experiment facilitates realism while enabling the laboratory-like testing of hypotheses [37]. Due to the realism sought, not all influences on users’ information-sharing behavior could be controlled for, which may reduce the quality of the measurements and findings. In particular, the questions asked are formulated by the library organization which had a real business interest in the answers. Thus, the questions are not standardized and hence, some of the questions might be more difficult to answer. This could introduce bias to quality characteristics such as accuracy and may have resulted in the lower differentiation between treatment groups in this characteristic (ID 9 in Table 4). Furthermore, the accuracy was summarized over the four days. As a result, there is a lack of a granular daily view on the impact of token incentives on this characteristic. 5) IMPACT The realistic setup of the experiment illustrates and underlines the importance of the findings of this paper for real-world organizations and communities. The identification of significant positive and negative effects of both token incentives on human sharing behavior and their observed interactions provide evidence that such effects are present in real-world sharing scenarios and should therefore be analyzed and evaluated by organizations and communities before they are applied in their use cases. In particular, a token design may not be robust, with use of the token having a different impact than intended [98]. The methodology of this paper can be applied to analyze such effects in real-world systems. The identified effects (interaction, internalization, time, and crowding-out) inform the Token Engineering and Token Economics community in the design of stable cryptoeconomies. Currently, methodologies in these fields mainly rely on game theory, mechanism design, and simulations [39], [99]–[103]. Nevertheless, none of these approaches considers the identified effects of this work on human behavior in their assumptions. Consequently, including these effects could improve the correspondence of findings from these methodologies with reality. Thus, this paper demonstrates the importance of behavioral experiments in the field of Token Engineering and Token Economics. In addition, this work illustrates the usability of selfdetermination theory to test hypotheses of token designs on human behavior. VI. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK This work evaluates the combined impact of multiple cryptoeconomic incentives in the form of blockchain-based tokens on human information-sharing behavior. By utilizing a rigorous experimental methodology with a 2 × 2 factorial design involving 132 participants, the impact is evaluated in a real-world information-sharing scenario involving a major Swiss organization and its customers. The identified interaction effect between the tokens and the potential crowding-out of intrinsic motivation by these cryptoeconomic incentives are important for researchers and practitioners to consider because they indicate that designing multi-token systems is a non-trivial task: The impact of individual token incentives on human behavior are not independent from each other and a token design might not be sufficiently robust, with the impact of the token possibly differing from the intended effect. These impacts have to be considered when implementing, simulating or mathematically analysing token economies as presented in the Discussion (Section V-B5). In particular, they inform the assumptions taken in theoretical models, validate their accuracy, and may thus facilitate their improved connection with reality. Therefore, the methodology of this paper and the identified effects are of use for organizations and communities that intend to apply (multiple) token incentives. The results point to various avenues for future research. i) Since information quality is a multi-dimensional concept VOLUME 10, 2022 74127 M. C. Ballandies: To Incentivize or Not: Impact of Blockchain-Based Cryptoeconomic Tokens (Section III-B) and the impact of token incentives can vary between those dimensions (Section V-B1), the impact of the chosen token incentives on other operationalizations of quality than accuracy or contextualization can be evaluated to further quantify the impact of these tokens on human information-sharing behavior. ii) In general, considering the broad design space of tokens and blockchain systems, the impact of further instances of cryptoeconomic token incentives should be evaluated in experiments to identify conditions and scenarios that are impaired or benefit from the introduction of cryptoeconomic incentives. iii) Due to the identified interaction effect and the complexity of potential system layouts, evaluating all these combinations in experimental setups might not be feasible. Thus, simulations should be employed to identify areas of interest in the design space, which, in a second step, are investigated in experiments. Modeling the determined effects of this work as emergent phenomena of a complex system could be a promising approach for these simulations. Finally, machine learning methods such as k-means or hierarchical clustering could be utilized to identify hidden patterns in the data that may impact human sharing behavior under incentivization. Thus, to conclude, further research by the cryptoeconomics community is required to identify why, how, and in which situations cryptoeconomic incentives should be applied. ACKNOWLEDGMENT The author would like to thank Evangelos Pournaras, Dirk Helbing, Claudio J. Tessone, and Carina I. Hausladen for their valuable comments, also would like to thank Stefan Wehrli and the rest of the ETH DeSciL staff members for their support in conducting the experiment, also would like to thank Maximiliane Okonnek and the ETH Library Laboratory Team for providing the financial support of the experiment, the access to their infrastructure, and their valuable feedback, and also would like to thank Lewis J. Dale for his assistance

