My Learning Tools and Goals for my ADHD / ASD Daughter’s Curriculum:

1.) Cards

A.) I have over 1000 blank poker cards and I have plastic sleeves for every one of them

B.) I have templates made for cards that I can print out on specifically pastel colored construction paper

C.) I want to use those cards to provide 2 spelling words with definitions in each subject, each school day, that are related to the subject and the daily theme in the best case scenario, although I know that some days I will have to pick one or the other

D.) I will have 2 copies of each spelling word and definition

	a.) 1 copy will have the full spelling word and definition written on it
	
	b.) 1 copy will have a version of the spelling word that is missing 2 letters for words that are 5 letters or less or missing 3 letters if the word is 6 letters long or longer

E.) I have glued tiny magnets onto the back of several cards for her whiteboard to make a visual schedule that essentially has no words on it, just pictures.

	a.) The “Food” card has a cartoon, colored picture of broccoli on it because she loves broccoli

	b.) The “Shower” card has a cartoon, colored picture of a shower head on it 

	c.) The idea is that she will get to choose whether we eat first or shower first, but we still have to do both of them back to back 

	d.) I want to have a 1 hour break in the middle of the day for her exercise to get her dopamine back up.  Some days I’ll play soccer with her or maybe jump on her mini trampoline etc…

		aa.) She will get to choose one of the magnetic cards with pictures of a soccer ball, a trampoline, and maybe playing tag or something.  I’ll figure the details out later, but that will determine what type of exercise we will do during that 1 hour time

	e.) I hope to be able to utilize this method for planning out our entire day.


2.) Minecraft Blocks

	A.) She has over 1000 magnetic Minecraft blocks and I hope to utilize those for much of her Math and possibly other subjects as the need shows itself


3.) The Program & Rewards
	A.) I am making a program that is designed to not only store her curriculum as I make it throughout the year, but to gameify it.  I made a Minecraft version of her, in the program that I will use in the game.  Every “Block” that she completes (There are 12 in a given school day) she gains 10 xp and everytime she gains 10 xp her character moves 1/12 th of the way across a background image I made that is directly related to her yearly, quarterly, monthly, and weekly theme.  Once she gets to the other side of that path, by completing all of her schoolwork for the day she will pop out into another scene that is simply a continuation of the scene she was just in.  I’m making it so that she has alternate paths that she can take occasionally that would allow her to gain extra xp by completing a memory game.  I intend on adding other types of games as well, I just don’t have time right now and she loves memory games.  I have made a series of badges so that she gets these decorated, digital badges that she can store in a journal that she has, that is also related to the themes, throughout the year.  She earns 1 badge when she completes all 3 blocks in a subject, in a day; she also earns a physical reward.  I have a basket for her to choose from a bunch of tiny Minecraft notebooks, stickers, slap bracelets, and decals and Bluey stickers and these little squishy toys she likes.  She will get to choose one after completing all 3 blocks in each subject for a total of 4 per day.  Then she will have a weekly reward which is just some toys or something she can choose 1 of that will be a little bit better than the ones she gets at the end of every subject, every day.  Then I’m making digital cards for her to collect that she will store in a digital Minecraft style chest in her “Rewards” screen, in the program.  She earns 1 card at the end of every, fully completed day.  When she clicks on the “Block” buttons, signifying that she has completed that block, a soothing, almost celebratory sound is made a there is a quick animation of confetti flying out of the button.  

4.) Explorer Theme

	A.) The theme of the year is about her being an explorer and saving animals so I bought her and I, both explorer outfits with vests and cool little items like binoculars, a compass, a flashlight, a whistle, and a few other “explorer” items, so that we can dress up when we do school stuff and pretend to be explorers.  I really really really want to get the most out of this concept, at least if you think that it’s a good idea because I think it’ll just be a really great way of connecting with her more and I think it’ll be super fun for her.

	B.) I have Minecraft, the video game, which I was hoping to use, at least sometimes, because it’s just an amazing, creative game and she loves it.  I’m hoping to implement some math and science and maybe some other things to it.

	C.) I have the ability to, and have vigorously been, creating images and animations of her, as a Minecraft style character, using adobe software, hoping that would be fun and engaging for her to see herself on the computer program

	D.) I was thinking it would be a good idea to have science class at the end of the day because she really loves doing science experiments and I think she may want to do more than the scheduled amount of experiments for the day, whatever that may be.  If it’s at the end of the day then we can go over the allotted amount of time without impeding on her other schoolwork.

	E.) I have an amazon kindle with a kindle unlimited account and a kids account so that she can download and read books that are related to the theme of the day and week and also I thought it would be good to use for Language Arts class.

	F.) We have “explorer journals” for the 2 of us, that she got to pick out, so that we will write about what we’ve accomplished in the program regarding helping out the animals and what we’ve learned about those animals along the way, which will be a big part of the incorporation of this entire curriculum.